I've started to use MCP for pretty much everything.
Start with a set of base servers.
Then enable that as a building block so that you can start putting together workflows that use those servers to actually solve real problems for you.
The question is now if you're connecting a client to a server and that server is now connecting to resources that require further authentication, authorization.
How do you handle that? Right? But you're also nervous because you've been around long enough that you know that writing secrets into JSON files creates risk for you as a human being.
You would be borderline crazy having an API key to a production system accessible to a stoastic agent.
There's a set of things that need to be done to just not shoot yourself in the foot.
Is MCP secure? As MCP proliferates across the AI ecosystem and even starts making its way into production, we want to make sure it's done in a safe and reliable manner.
We've seen the demos.
A malicious MCP server can excfiltrate data and create back doors.
And as more people are vibeing up these servers, we want to make sure that we look at our tools and make sure that they're hardened and secure.
So in episode 51 of tool use brought to you by Stacklo, we're joined by Craig McClucky, the co-creator of Kubernetes, the former CEO of Heptio, and the current leader of Stacklo who's developed ToolHive.
We're going to be discussing why security matters with MCP, how to make your MCP servers more secure, best practices, things to look out for, and we're going to get into the developer experience and communitydriven business.
It's a great conversation and I'm thrilled to introduce Craig McClucky.
Yeah, I think MCP is a a really interesting technology and the the kind of hint here is in the P the protocol and you know for me as as I was thinking about the the world at at large like I became fascinated by transformers right these these stochastic systems that are able to do things that we've never been able to do in technology before right like this there's the ability to start dealing with semantic reasoning and the ability to start processing data um actually driving outcomes it's it's So it's a fascinating class of system and then you look at the outside world and it's kind of hard, cruel and uncaring, right? Like the the traditional IT systems are are are are very unforgiving.
And I think when I think about what MCP is, it's really a bridge between these two worlds.
It's a it's a way for a large language model which is optimized to converse natural language. just happens to be very good at producing well structured JSON to start interfacing with these these these adjacent systems in a way that's natural to to that environment.
So being able to start looking at an outside wall instead of a set of of APIs that have to be called sequentially which creates opportunities for hallucination to start you know overwhelming systems which creates a system where unnecessary context is being egressed from these systems that it starts to affect the self- attention mechanisms of of of of transformers.
Having that very natural bridge where you can start to describe in a very precise way the specific set of resources, tools, prompts, completions, whatever you have that are necessary to bring that context, you know, from the outside world into the model and create an elegant bridge where those models can start actually interacting with the outside world to to control things through a much more natural framework that's more optimized for the way that that models work is is is very compelling.
Yeah, I had someone kind of frame it uh frame my mental model where instead of an API where you're getting like a singular piece of data with MCP, you kind of go for workflows, try to get a general uh goal accomplished or something that augments more than just like mapping a onetoone MCP uh function with an API endpoint.
Um so bringing toolhive into this, what what is the problem that you're solving? Where where does it fit into this ecosystem? If you think about MCP as basically a protocol that enables you to describe tools and all the rest of it and in a way that's more natural for language models, having a set of curated base servers that you can start to use is really useful, right? So right now it's a very chaotic world out there.
You know, everyone is is sort of energized.
MCP demos really well.
So, you know, a developer is one hot coding afternoon away from producing a server that does something really novel.
They get it out there.
It gets a fair bit of traction.
People look at it and they're like, "Hey, shoot.
Wow, this is great.
They put get up stars on it and it's very difficult to discern signal from noise in the ecosystem.
It's really hard for a developer to know, hey, this was, you know, something that's, you know, people have talked about and read it a fair bit, but it was a hot coding weekend for a developer who's not necessarily committed to the the sort of maintenance of this thing other than it's it's a cool demo versus, you know, there's there's teams out there that are spending a lot of time reasoning about how to map their APIs into a set of tools that can be or skills that can be consumed by uh an organization.
And so as a starting point, just taking a lot of the guesswork out of, hey, is this a good server? Like if I have to pick between the the sort of 50 servers that provide me access to basic fetch capabilities, what's actually going to run well for me? What's going to have a decent kind of profile from a memory management perspective? what's not going to be super flaky when I actually go from that, hey, I'm using this to I'm npx installing this and it seems to work well for me while I'm coding to, hey, I actually want to build a system that uses this over time to access information um that that my organization is is uh is is really sensitive about.
And so yeah, start with a set of base servers, then enable that as a building block so that you can start, you know, putting together workflows that use those servers to actually solve real problems for you. solve real problems for you when you're trying to code inside the developer inner loop and solve real problems as you're starting to build a Gentic systems that address that outer loop where where you want to be able to sustainably create access to those classes of systems that um that that your organization is is uh is is living with every day and that are potentially under regulatory scrutiny or have a lot of other kind of hardening requirements for access.
Yeah.
And I've admittedly mostly viewed MCP as a tool for my development.
It allows me to have a common interface that I've been using for a while, cursor claw desktop, and just be able to input more context into it.
But the idea of having it be a part of a production system is almost beyond the scope of what I've explored with MCP just because I build the final app.
Like I'm okay doing all these all these different aspects.
But how does the idea of of a toolhive docker container being deployed into a production system uh help developers out? Yeah.
So there's this there there's two sides to it, right? And it's it's this is the thing that's relatively complex because we're using MCP to help us work and then we're using, you know, increasingly we're starting to use MCP in the things that we produce that are the word product, right? So it's it's both the tool that like you know man is a tool using creature you know like we you know we we shape our tools our tools shape us there's a lot of kind of great quotes that go into this the space and so that journey from you know okay I'm I'm I want to use MCP right now because I'm a knowledge worker like developers are knowledge workers and there's a lot of other class of knowledge workers out there and so I want to be able to introduce this as a technology that enables me to do my work on a day-to-day basis and the reality is like in in an organization there are teams that are dedicated to supporting their knowledge workers.
There's teams that are dedicated to making developers productive.
That's the same team that probably went and procured your cursor license in the first place so you can do your work.
That team is motivated by your success and that team wants you to have access to the best tools out there.
But that team also knows that maybe if you're in a bank NPX installing something on your desktop, it's not the best idea.
So the starting point for us with ToolHive is is embracing that situation. you're a developer, you want to use this thing, you maybe can't because your organization won't let you.
Um, or you're a developer, you want to use this thing, but you're also nervous because you've been around long enough that you know that writing secrets into um JSON files creates risk for you as a human being.
Like there's like there's there's this there this there's very real risk for you as a human being.
So the starting point of just let's have a system when we look at it as people that have been around for a little while gives you that experience but also gives you the assurances that you're not going to get hurt while you're using it is is a great starting point and then over time that transitions from okay I'm using these servers locally but my organization wants me to be able to access documentation that's in a specific repo. organization wants me to be able to access knowledge that's not necessarily uh you know something that I I want an empowered agent to just be able to do direct line of connection to.
So this move from service being a local concept which is just I'm running them you know as part of my day-to-day workflow to service being the the bridge between the information that an enterprise has that is necessary to enable me to do my job you know in that sort of developer in a loop and then ultimately supporting other knowledge workers with with with with with access becomes really important.
Most of the world's monetizable information exists behind a firewall of some kind, right? Like it's it's it's it's most of the world's not monetizable information has authentication authorization requirements.
So being able to bring that that information into your workflow requires a certain amount of respect for that the sort of access to that information and and it should involve a certain amount of controls associated with it. just being able to scope this to access only that being able to make sure that the authorization flow works reasonably well being able to observe what information is actually being egress from those systems into your environment and so I think it's a very natural world where yes MCP service started as that developer tool for just developer productivity they're going to become a tool that support knowledge workers over time because those knowledge workers need access to their own information it becomes a way for an organization to control their destiny and say these are the set of systems I want to have access by these people or these agents that are doing work just like developers.
And over time, it's going to become a natural part of the way that SAS providers who've been delivering these vertically integrated experiences start to deliver value into an AI enabled ecosystem.
If you've been watching the show for a bit, you know that one of the big benefits to AI agents, the productivity gains.
Now, the demos are cool.
They're a lot of fun.
I've made a few myself, but to get realworld benefits, you need to give it access to real data via MCP.
And that's a little bit scary.
So that's why I've been using ToolHive.
Toolhive makes it simple and secure to use MCP.
It includes a registry of trust MCP servers.
It lets me containerize any server with a single command.
I can install in a client in seconds.
And secret protection and network isolation are built in.
So you can try toolive as well.
Highly recommend you check it out.
It's free.
It's open source.
You can install it today and you can learn more at toolhive.dev.
Now back to the conversation with Craig.
I think part of it is just making sure you don't stumble over um you know poor quality tools.
I think you know one of the things that I've certainly observed is there's a very rich ecosystem of tools out there and some of them are you know more or less stable and so part of your work as a developer is hey I want to be able to use a tool to access something off the local file system or I want to have a tool that accesses something off the internet or I want to integrate with some other popular technology GitHub or or what have you.
Um, and there's there's a sort of abundance of choices available out there.
You know, you can go and find, you know, a bunch of random servers.
You can MPX install them.
And it's up to you to figure out, you know, how well do they work.
Um it's up to you to discover that hey once I've actually gone down the process of getting this tool working for my particular uh workflow that hey maybe memory management isn't a priority for the tool developer and this thing is a bit of a memory hog or or um you know hey there's a uh you know we encounter you know um you know occasional flakiness you know for the tool in certain situations.
So I think there's a lot of value to just having a a relatively standardized toolkit of commonly used tools that are hardened.
They they actually work reasonably consistently well.
They're thoughtfully put together.
And so we are working to take a lot of the um of the the challenges associated with with with hitting those kind of uh pre-production issues that you might have with with tool calling.
So just giving you a a standardized set of tools, we know they work well.
We provide a simple way to kind of actually get those tools integrated into the environments that you're using.
If you're using co copilot or cursor or or whatever tools that that are supporting the tool calling ecosystem and I think the our advantage is just not having to think about it like hey I can discover them.
These are tools that have been appropriately vetted.
I'm not going to catch a disease by using this tool because the team has actually taken the time to review them, scan them, make sure that they're packaged well.
There's not a lot of you know there's no vulnerabilities in the base images etc.
So, I do think there there are advantages to developers as well.
It's not just about enterprise use.
In my day-to-day development workflow, I I'll use I I'm getting better using MCPS, but I had the hesitation at first because it exposes my my personal data, especially said the file system and other use cases like that, but there's a bit of friction when I set it up trying to like go through cursor or even cloud desktop.
Um, if you want to add a new one, you have to update the config file.
So, this ability of discoverability I think is is a massive win.
Do you focus around the developer experience in how you set the product roadmap or what's guiding the the development flow of uh ToolHive? Um the community like I mean to be to be honest like our our principal focus right now is is is is working with the community.
So, you know, as as the community is looking at at at real world use cases, we we we we look to within the community to understand what problems they're facing right now in terms of being able to, you know, identify and access these tools.
Uh, you know, tune the tools for specific uh use cases. uh make sure that you know based on their own needs things like you know authentication and authorization is a is a real problem when you're when you're trying to uh you know actually use these tools not just for for local experimentation but potentially for agentic uh you know use cases and so I think the the the intent here is to to to make sure that it's it's very you know kind of community-led the way I tend to describe this is I think there's a lot of folks out there that are you know describing the Emerald City from the Wizard of Oz um and developers are just trying walk along the yellow brick road right now.
And so most of the motivation for what we do and and most of the road map is is coming from real developers out there that are looking to consume tools for their their kind of local development experience, but also increasingly looking to use tools as part of the systems that they're building.
And as you go from that that use of tools for um hey, I'm using cursor and I want to be able to access things, that's great.
Um, but when you're starting to get to a point where, hey, I'm building an agentic system and I want to be able to use tools that enable me to use the anthropic model with uh some other data that I have in a a SQLite database and this other thing.
Um, there's a real need for just having a very simplistic experience to be able to acquire those tools for that developer in a loop so that you know when you're actually working to to build that experience locally, you can you can identify the right tool, you can get it integrated into your developer environment, you can start to kick the tires and get things going.
But then when it comes time for you to actually deploy that thing that you've built that that that that agentic system, we're right there with you to make sure that those tools are now available in something like a Kubernetes environment where you might be deploying your application into.
So when you're starting to think about that outer loop of of development, you have a similar experience in terms of being able to get that system integrated and also deal with the real world implications of things like authentication, authorization, secrets management, and all of the other things that are necessary to actually make that tool usable in a production context.
And that's a great point for developer velocity.
If you can just take a existing tool and plug it into your system, especially through Docker communication and Kubernetes, it just will expedite the process.
Plus, you get that almost um that reassurance that you don't have to worry about all of the nitty-gritty that your team has already put together.
Um just in terms of the community, how can people get involved? Where do they go if someone has an FCP server that they've been using that they feel is integral to their product, but they're just not confident it can be deployed to production? How do they bring that to Stack Lock and and have the team kind of work together to make it into something more robust? Um so the process for kind of adding to our registry is is is pretty well defined.
So what we've what we've done is basically described um a set of criteria for things that we would consider appropriate for introduction into the general tool lab registry.
Um, so if you're, you know, if you're like, let's say you're you're out there and you're working on something and you've built a really cool server and you think that this is something that that unlocks real value in the world, the way you would kind of get that added is just submit a PR requesting us to add that to the registry that we've produced.
And you know, we'll then take that PR, we'll we'll run that tool through our set of of internal sort of processes to make sure that it it is meeting the the the standards so that it it sort of is is is achieving and and demonstrating the set of things that uh we think that our community needs.
Um and if if it doesn't, well, we're happy to go back and forth with you and work with you to get it to the point where it actually does.
And so the intent is to make the the the sort of public registry something that is is kind of community owned and the community has high levels of ownership around it.
So if you have like a cool MCP server, you know, talk to us about it and we'll work with you to make sure that the base image that you know we're packaging is is appropriate.
We actually package it for you and um we'll work to make sure that all of the um the security considerations are in place so that it can be published to that registry.
But it's also important to recognize that it's not just about our registry, right? like you know we have a certain opinion around which MCP servers are great um but we also see a lot of organizations or developers or other people wanting to start to create their own registries and so it's entirely possible to say hey these are the set of servers that I want to use for myself um I have a GCR registry here I've populated it let's just use those servers and you could take a subset of the servers that we've published and published to your own registry um or you could just you know make your own you know make your own um criteria up and and decide how you want to control that.
So, we're trying to create that sort of flexibility starting with a really well-curated set of servers that you can just rely on and trust, but also making it, you know, options available either being able to run um run a a server directly in a container.
So, you don't actually have to go through the whole packaging thing.
You just get to benefit from the use of a container as an air gaps environment to run an npx installed server on. um or you know for a lot of the the real world use, the more enterprise use, people typically want to have their own registry.
They want to be able to apply their own um their own criteria for for what makes sense for their organization.
And so they can take a lot of what we've done and then populate those into their own registry.
Um or they can introduce the the servers that they built for themselves, for their organization into that environment.
And do you have any general advice for people to to get up to that standard? So maybe there's a little less back and forth almost like a checklist of things that they can audit on their own servers to get a bit more robust and even if they don't go the stack lock route just by being able to be a little more confident that what they're making is secure.
Yeah, I think there's a few things, right? like um the the starting point I think is is kind of community viability and you know what we obviously look for when we're when we want to recommend a server is you know is there an organization behind it or at least a set of individuals right so there's always that sort of single individual risk you know like hey here's a cool server but it's only got one human being supporting it only one human being maintaining it we've never seen any external kind of participation engagement we we don't necessarily have uh a strong sense of this going to exist in in a year from now for instance if you're if you're looking to to use a server and that doesn't really matter as much for your own kind of like you know hey I'm using servers through the lens of cursor and I just want to access things so I can produce better code you know you you can have a chance to use what you want but if the answer is hey I'm using the server to access relational data into an agentic system that I'm going to be supporting for the next 3 years you probably don't want to trade out that server somewhere down the line and so that starting point around just you know community viability.
The GitHub stars is a heruristic that a lot of folks have used but we we tend to prefer looking at participation.
We we we value looking at things like how are issues being dealt with? You know what's the the rate at which community is burning through the issues? What level of engagement do they have with their their own community? Uh is the type of criteria that that we're looking for.
Um, and then obviously there's there's a lot of the mechanics of just using the tools that exist right now to start, you know, scanning for malicious code, making sure that uh, you know, kind of coding standards are are being upheld that that the server itself is not, you know, pulling in additional dependencies that are potentially um, problematic that that that don't have, you know, kind of cohesive um, uh, security around.
So, it's it's it's kind of trying to look at that that that holistic picture.
Um, and yeah, so you know, my my sort of advice would be just treat it the same way you would treat any other package and and ask the question like would I, you know, would I include this package in an application I'm building? Uh, would I include this application a package that I'm going to live with for, you know, for a while? And and and start to apply the same criteria.
And, you know, we're looking to just bring a lot of our perspective that that that came from the the world of supply chain security to the MCP ecosystem.
But it it's it's a lot broader than that, right? Like it's not just about it's not just about is the server good or bad you know is the server safe or not safe it's also about you know can I make the server you know work well in my environment you know can I actually use the server with a halfway sensible authentication authorization system you know that that's the the type of consideration that that we we think a lot about and you just mentioned something about gauging the the I I don't want to say long-term viability but you know having some staying power with with things changing so quickly and in your experience with Kubernetes being able to understand the importance of good infrastructure for expanding out do you see current gaps in the AI ecosystem for infrastructure is MCP being just a protocol going to be sufficient to kind of help elevate agents to become a bigger part of day-to-day life or do you think there's other avenues that we as a community still haven't explored enough yet so we get this robust uh infrastructure to really start accelerating deployment of agents you know I think there's this there this there's kind of different horizons that this exists on right like this this There's kind of, you know, in my mind at least, you know, there's like how are we using these tools in our day-to-day work just to produce code and the work product that's being produced is the code.
And then, you know, how are we using these tools to produce agents where the work product isn't just code, it's code plus a model plus uh a context retrieval subsystem plus all of those other pieces.
And and the problems, you know, exist in a variety of different ways. like there's an obvious challenge associated with authentication and authorization that we're dealing with right now, right? Like so you as we're working in the in the um in the MCP ecosystem, you know, I think there's there's a lot of progress that's been made towards authentication between a client and a server.
And if you think about like the um the OOTH workflow to do, you know, simple client to server uh connectivity, it's relatively solidified, right? like hey we we know how to run our war flows between a client and server.
The question is now if you're you know connecting a client to a server and that server is now connecting to resources that require further authentication authorization how do you handle that right like do you want to do a chain or with workflow do you want to use a JWT token exchange um you know like what's what's the right sort of system to support that especially when you think about the incredibly complex world of authentication authorization on the back end so I think there's obviously a lot more work to be done around authentic authentication authorization something has to exist that sits between, you know, a classic u open ID principle, a human being and a relatively traditional service account which enables you to take a set of claims that a person might have propagate that just a subset of those claims and then present them to an agentic system so that it can operate on the behalf of an individual for the duration of the task and then have that access rescended over time.
Right? So that that authentication authorization flow is something that is is interesting. lots of great work being done in the in the MCP community.
You know, we see a lot of great proposals that are flowing uh, you know, flowing by and we're certainly spending a lot of time, you know, talking to folks and thinking about what those options are for for real world use.
The other, you know, the other problem associated with that is is is just the the shape of of of um of of agents particularly and and and the problems that associated with you know, if you have an agent that you have provided access to a relatively large set of data.
So, you know, hey, I've got an agent that's gone off and indexed all my Google Drive.
I want to create a glean like experience.
How do I preserve authorization through that flow? How do I avoid a confused deputy situation so that that agent is not inadvertently leaking privileged information to my organization that that shouldn't you shouldn't shouldn't shouldn't be dealing with.
So, it's not just about authentication, but there are some really gnarly and complex authorization tasks that need to to happen.
The other thing that I see a lot of of kind of interest in around progressive thinking, forward-thinking people is is is establishing and understanding the provenence of data, right? Like if you're in a real world situation and you have, you know, some kind of monetizable database like um hey, I'm you know, these are my my my positions as a as a hedge fund, right? Like if these leaked, this would be really problematic. um you may want to be able to run agentic systems that um you know can start to kind of reason about some of those positions and and start to you know look for unique insights you know beyond what a human analyst could perform.
But you need to be able to establish provenence.
You need to know exactly which systems are accessing which data when.
You need to be able to track the flow of data into and through these agentic systems and understand where it's being propagated to.
So, I'd say that that that ability to understand and reason about the flow of information through agentic systems and being able to establish that breadcrumb trail of of what's using what is is is kind of uh it's very progressive and and sort of um and and and interesting.
And then in terms of like the the sort of nearer term stuff, there's a lot of pros things that just need to be wired in.
You know, hey, I'm building this thing.
How do I wire it into open telemetry? What does an appropriate dashboard look like? um how do I deal with um throttling so I don't you know get an insane anthropic bill on the back of the week because the models challenge these tools and they're just dumping in ornaments of context into the context window and and blowing up my inferencing costs.
So those sort of relatively prosaic illities are another thing that that that need to exist for for sustainable use of of um a genetic systems that are are are accessing real world real world subsystems and are being kind of trusted to run in a relatively autonomous way.
I would like to kind of double click on the the trust aspect when you mentioned the ability to kind of observe the data flow.
Um tracing comes to mind being able to actually see how agents perform tasks along the way so you can debug faster but also helps just produce visibility.
A lot of people view AI as a black box.
Um one thing that stack lock or sorry toolive does is secret protection and network isolation.
How do those which tend to be removed from the end user of these projects help with trust? Is it just going to be the developer can claim that they're creating products that only allow access to certain data or is there any way we can kind of percolate up the issue of a trustful system, a trustworthy system that tools like ToolHive will actually help uh contribute to? There's the the sort of prosaic and the sublime kind of components of this, right? Like the prosaic components of this are um you would be borderline crazy having an API key to a production system accessible to u a stoastic agent right like like let's let's face it these these these agents are are um you know they don't have a conscience they don't have like intrinsic awareness right like the their constraints are precisely the constraints that you place upon them and And so there's there's a set of things that you know need to be done to just not shoot yourself in the foot.
And you know one of the things that I would suggest you should probably not do to to not shoot yourself in the foot is to you know write secrets into JSON files that are readable by these agentic systems that are egressing that content to the cloud.
And in some cases, if you don't know what you, you know, if you don't know what you're dealing with, like, hey, I'm, you know, I'm using open router, um, I want to try this new model.
I don't know who's behind that model.
Like, I don't know what they're doing with that data.
I sure don't want my API see my API keys being egress to that model accidentally as part of a, you know, kind of a a code indexing activity.
Like, who knows if they're going to get retrained on who knows who's behind that model, right? Like, um, there's there's a lot of these systems that are suddenly just immediately made available to you.
So I think there's just that the sort of the mundane which is just let's let's just make sure that we are taking care of a set of things that that will avoid us getting hurt um you know kind of over time and in the future.
And then when we talk about the sort of the sublime, you know, like where we can get to over time, there's a lot of techniques that have we've we've built over time to start to assert trust in certain environments, right? So the ability to say, I only want to run servers that my organization signed and my organization is only going to sign these servers using something like a SIG store key if they meet a certain set of operating criteria.
And you can start to, you know, establish kind of tiers of trust.
So like you know these are the sets of servers that are hardened enough for me to use in this environment.
And when I say hardened it's not just about the you know hey the the image is hardened.
It's also about hardening the constraints.
So basically being able to package up a server say the server is signed here's the explicit um profile associated with the server that my organization is willing to adopt.
So hey the server has access to file system but you know when I'm running the server it can only mount this subset of the file system locally so that it can access it.
Hey the system is accessing resources on my internet. um it can only access you know these these these these resources on the subnet or in this domain or you know at this this kind of um HTTP endpoint and being able to kind of bundle up a server along with the constraints and then create a system that can deterministically enforce that that server is running with those constraints and like only servers running with those constraints can be connected to these clients.
So there's this this long journey from you know let's not be silly and get hurt by having secrets egress to to models because we're writing API keys into uh JSON files to hey let's actually look at what it takes to kind of create a much more sort of sophisticated real world use so that we can get the constraints in place that enable us to trust these agents enough to actually start reasoning about our data very much on board with the idea of whitelisting scoping putting guardrails on the capabilities of these things.
One idea that I'm just curious about your your thoughts of the future on it.
Do you think API keys are going to stick around? It feels like a massive vulnerability and I just I'm unsure if we can use something like uh public private key pairs with with the mass public just because of the complexity of setting it up.
But do you think API keys are going to hang around or do you think we're going to need better systems now that we're trying to just feed so much data to a system that a single string of characters can cause such catastrophic damage? I've been in it for a long time and unfortunately these things are fantastically unbelievably durable.
Um because you know and this is the sad truth like like why does the mainframe still exist like if you if you think about it from that perspective and the sad truth is yeah I think for you know for progressive new systems you know we we'll get to the point where you have a gentic identity as a first class thing right you know we we'll move away from the world where you are you know dealing with with directed access through an API key to you know reasoning with like an identity provider, an IDP that's able to start carving out identities, you'll start to have systems that look a lot more like that sort of what people describe as as kind of perimeterless security or the zero trust security, right? Um but there's a reason why zero trust hasn't dominated the world, right? Like it's it's it's an obviously correct way to reason about um the systems, right? like like you know being able to have something where you can construct a service identity and every action is is being driven through the lens of a of a specific service identity.
And realistically the only organizations that have been able to make that transition to a kind of zero trust um operating profile are organizations that have a fantastically hetroenous internal workload like Google, right? Like Google's been on the zero trust train.
In fact, they they sort of they pioneered the idea.
Um the reality is real world enterprises are uki right like an organization is is has budget and their budget is you know being deployed to address their problems and some of their budget is is is deployed to maintenance some of their budget is deployed to updating their technology fleet to be more more modern and some of their budget is being allocated to kind of forward-looking systems.
The reality is that budget is never like entirely allocated to just deprecating older systems and moving things forwards, right? There's always a server under someone's desk that's running something it probably shouldn't.
And the reality is just given the conflicting priorities of of real world organizations, that's going to continue to be the case.
So you know like a lot of people talk about legacy systems.
I tend to think of them as sort of heritage systems this this reality that those systems actually represent your organization in a very real way.
In an organization is people process and technology.
They are in many ways the technology that they've written over the last 20 years.
And unfortunately the technology that was written over the last 20 years has this um the crack cocaine addiction of of of API keys.
It's just not it's not built around primitive security.
It's not built around, you know, the use of a centralized IDP.
It's not built around the idea of of of of a genetic identity.
So, the way I describe it is, yeah, it's going to get better.
Like, I think the world's going to get um you know, like like you know, certainly as these types of systems challenge conventional design, as as we start to see richness evolving, there will be classes of systems that that that that do get better and and we no longer have the API key.
But until that last um database is is is is is rolled out and until that last Windforms application is depregated, until you know that last mainframe is no longer sort of you know sitting there and and and crushing you know kind of a lot of the sort of ERP problems that your organization have.
I think we're going to be living in this very um yes and world.
Yes.
And yes, we will have IPs. Yes, we'll have IDPs. Yes, we'll have sort of a jet zero trust. will have a whole bunch of other things.
But it's if anything is I've learned over the last 25 years of of working in the space is is enterprises are complex and heterogeneous and and there's just no one solution for them.
In terms of the broader ecosystem, do you think this uh the the slowness that comes with being a big company is going to be a detriment and allow startups to kind of start taking over more and more market share or do you view it more that the large budgets that come with having these big corporations so they're able to run more experiments, try try out different ways of leveraging it is going to keep them ahead? How how do you see kind of the the market share of the um economy changing with this? Yeah, I mean it's the these moments like the like like we've defined our you if you look back on humanity our epochs are defined after the dominating technology the stone age the iron age the bronze age the industrial age right um and there's no question that you know like you know we're now moving into the AI age and it it represents a tremendously disruptive moment that's going to change everything right like it's it's going to change the unit economics associated with work.
It's going to change the the the the types and classes of of goods that we can produce and and market, right? So, I don't think there's any question that this represents a moment of profound and fundamental disruption to almost every facet of industry and it's breaking faster than than any of the other technologies I think we've ever encountered.
Right? So, so this is the moment when there will be a massive redistribution of IT spend of IT budget of of of spend across the industry, right? like uh it it does represent a moment where organizations that are relatively unencumbered will have opportunities to create new class of systems and new classes of service and new class of product um that will will enable them to um to to outperform their competitors. um in terms of like you know reading the crystal ball and saying like you know you know how's that going to play out like are we going to see new banks displace JPMC from their pedestal as the pre-minent financial services institution you know probably not right because there are you know a lot of real world implications and I think you know some of these large organizations are are going to move very authoritatively in this direction um but I I do think it's it does represent a moment of of substantial disruption and organizations that are able to navigate the complexities of their regulatory or um or uh kind of you know um kind of complex operating environment to start you know accessing these tools to fundamentally change the the cost profile of their ability to work are are going to start to outperform and I think we will see a new generation of breakout companies on the back of this you know the the Amazons the Googles the um that came out of the you know the sort of dotcom era right um that became the the sort of the the the sort of um these these sort of megaliths of of of technology we will see a new kind of wave of of companies like that start to emerge um but yeah I don't think it's I don't think it's obvious that it's it's a complete reset of the corporate landscape I think there's opportunities for really great big companies start to emerge I think some of the great big companies we have will become um you know will go the path of of GE where they're unable to necessarily um yeah translate what they've been doing into this kind of new world um and I think um you know the cost economics across a lot of different areas are going to change and and and folks that have been able to dominate in things like you know like Red Hat's dominated the the world of of open-source delivery for the last you know number of years because they have a very nuanced way of approaching open source communities and operationalizing etc.
Guess what? The cost economics of of operationalizing open source just changed completely.
And you know, Red Hat will either need to adjust to to those realities and and and probably will um or someone else will start to, you know, sort of show up and and and be able to kind of chip away at their their dominance in certain areas, you know, whether it's in the OS or in any of the other peripheral areas that they're operating in.
So, it is it is a period of opportunity.
It's a period of of of tremendous change.
Uh, and it's it certainly is an exciting time to be a startup because, you know, when you're in a in a disruptive environment where the cost economics are changing, not being tied to an existing sales motion, not being tied to an existing support motion gives you just tremendous opportunity.
Yeah.
And on top of being the most exciting, it's the most accessible.
People can fire up a proof of concept at home relatively easily.
You have access to all of these intelligence tools that can help you get up to speed and try to identify blind spots.
Yeah.
You mentioned open source and and that that's my go-to.
So I have to double click on that.
You have stack lock and toolive running running open source.
What was the business decision that drove that? For me it's I mean there's there's a couple of points here.
Um the reality that when you're building a business I'll kind of play it through two angles right like um people say simple repeat like people say product market fit and and for me that really means simple repeatable sale.
And you know as we're starting to look at this ecosystem there's uh a lot of folks moving really quickly and open source is probably the far like one of the best enablers for an organization to move very quickly like you don't have to have a conversation with someone to use their product.
They don't have to have any commitment to to you to use your product.
They can simply they don't have to give you their uh email address to use your product.
So it is by far the the cleanest and simplest way to capture an organization's attention and for you to be able to then you know create start to create value for someone that you don't even have a relationship with.
Right? So, so for me like um that that sort of simple repeatable sale like you know you have it when people are just using your technology and you're giving up something right like you're giving up um control you're giving up um a competitive advantage in some ways because one of the greatest compliments of open source is having another organization behind the scenes um uh take what it builds package it up and sell it like there's nothing stopping them doing it right so your R&D is now something that they your R&D budget is something that they can tap into.
And so for me the the calculus is relatively simple like one is um I want to see what works and open source is a great way to do that. two is I've built technologies like Kubernetes in the past and I've recognized the power of open source not just as a way to um you know kind of unlock usage but also as a way to start driving collaboration right like there's a lot of people out there that are looking to solve these problems and but you know approaching this with an open source mindset and enabling an open contributor model where it's like I don't have to own all of this like I would be perfectly happy with someone from Red Hat showing up or someone from Microsoft showing up or Google showing up or anyone showing up and and starting to take ownership for the project.
So it's that sort of if you want to go fast go alone and you know I'm happy to go alone in single vendor open source for a while but if you want to go far go together and sort of communityowned open source if if you if we want to hype to eventually emerge as a as a platform you kind of need to let your legos go a little bit and let other people feel ownership of what you're doing and then it's up to you to to figure out how to create create enough value beyond the the communitycentric open source to generate a healthy and sustainable business.
And the good news is there's so many obvious ways to do that in this ecosystem.
Like you know, every time I talk to an enterprise organization, there's four or five things that they're very upfront and they would say, you know, these are important to us and yes, we would pay money for them.
Um, and so you can start to use that open source as a way to kind of create enterprise specific features that you can charge money for, whether those are open source themselves or whether the organization just needs someone on the line to to support the use of it.
Yeah, I fully agree and it it improves trust in the product.
Um like I said, you'll get product market fit quicker because you have real people using it.
One aspect that's become more popular too is the idea of solutions engineering where actually have uh employees, staff who are able to integrate systems better.
Um do you see that proliferating to more industries where this idea of having multiple systems talk to each other is going to become more important or do you think that will be an area where AI thrives and we don't even need to start exploring that when in the in the human domain? Yeah, I think there's you know it's it's interesting and it comes back to that earlier comment around like you know cost economics of of integration right like when when you think about where value creation is happening in the ecosystem right now right like most of the value creation that's happening like and I think of this these sort of two areas that value creation is happening value creation happens in solution engineering value creation happens in kind of platform engineering right so it's like I deliver a platform and it creates a certain amount of value because everyone can use the platform and then there's the solutions engineering space where I create a solution using that platform and uh you know as I'm using the platform I I I I I I I fit it to a specific use case I fitted to a specific um area.
I think the thing that surprised me about the the AI space is most of the value creation and like this has been completely contrarian to my my own instincts like um I'm a platform engineer so like I've always kind of just taken a platform first approach to things and I think you know what what we're starting to see in the in the AI ecosystem is most of the value creation is actually happening in the solution engineering space that if you start to approach a problem platform engineers mindset and start to try to a priority We identify the set of things that need to exist for the system to function like I need a vector database.
I'm going to use this inferencing subsystem.
I need uh this kind of you know connector I need these these things and you you start from that perspective and then try to figure out eventually how do you actually build a solution on top of it you will fail right um it it won't it won't deliver the goods things are moving so quickly under the covers you know if you if you made a bet on one model you know 3 months down the line you're going to have a a different model available and so I think there is an inversion here where where for an organization to succeed they have to be able to embrace a um a solutions engineering mindset.
They need to be able to move very quickly to feel what works.
And then once they figured out what works, they need to figure out what platform enables them to to start to unlock that value.
And I I do think they there will we will see full platforms emerging that we will see this kind of agentic middleware start to emerge over time.
But it's going to be companies like Google and Microsoft and you know potentially Amazon and OpenAI and those types of organizations that actually have the the wherewithal to create that kind of full suit to the nuts middleware um type systems.
Um and so I think it's it's premature for an an organization to kind of you embrace a full platform builder mindset and start to think of like what is the Kubernetes for for agentic uh you know sort of workflows.
Um, so I I do think, you know, embracing tools that enable you to safely solutioner is probably the most pragmatic thing an organization can do right now.
And um you know once you start to identify what works not just once but you know twice, three times, four times, five times and once you've started to get a handle on your organization's ability to consume these types of systems, that's the moment at which you start to ask questions around what platforms necessary for me to bring this into a production context.
How do I how do I deal with the the illities, the security, the reliability, the manageability, the um observability associated with the system? I don't know if that answers the question the way you were asking it, but that's that's something I've I've been thinking a lot about recently.
Along the same vein, the the switch from going from platform engineering to solution engineering mindset.
Do you have any other advice for people on what mindset they should try to be cognizant of, if not fully adopt thrive in this new AI age? Yeah, I think it's this is this has been kind of I've eaten a lot of humble pie over the last six months, I'll be honest.
Right. like um I've I've I've been kind of the way that I I've personally operated is you you sort of build this relatively sophisticated model of how the world works and then you kind of will something to come into existence by your your mental model of how the pool works, right? Like that's how we build Google comput engine and Kubernetes and a variety of other things that I've I've worked on.
And I've been wrong more often than I've been right when I'm interacting with our systems because my instincts are wrong, right? like you you you you think you know like and and don't don't fall into this trap of thinking that you you know like you spent a bunch of time you've observed you've watched the copathy series you you've got this sort of model in your mind around like you know what the various you know constituent pieces are and now now you you feel qualified to to to to assert what's going to work like you're probably going to be wrong at least I've been wrong consistently there's a lot of things that have happened that I just didn't see coming I didn't understand 20 years of of experience building, you know, enterprise class distributed systems just didn't translate well into this world.
And so I think the reason we're seeing organizations like cursor outperform in the space is because they come completely unfeted.
They have no these are these are individuals that are incredibly bright.
They're incredibly close to the tools.
Um and they're not making assumptions. they're not limiting their thinking based on their understanding around how the world and distributed systems tend to work, right? And so, you know, the thing I would say is, and I've I've heard this from a lot of people I've talked to recently, is like, you know, like, you know, there's there's a person I sort of did breakfast with the other day who's incredibly smart guy.
Like, he's he's one of the smartest people I've ever worked with, one of the most organized people I've ever worked with.
And he described a situation where they set up three teams to to go and and tackle a problem because they were were struggling to address it.
And the team that nailed it were the youngest, most freewheeling yolo team they had.
Like they couldn't use the solution they produced because, you know, it was was was relatively, you know, it wasn't necessarily at at at the sort of production ready.
But, um, that was the team that created the most inspiration for the system they eventually did build.
And so, I think you have to be very deliberate about not pre like this sort of, hey, I can see it working.
That's fine.
It's like no, I have to see it working.
Actually read its results, play with it.
Um, optimize, optimize, optimize.
Just not not necessarily in the in the in um in the traditional systems engineering way.
Just try five different prompt profiles like, you know, hey, what else can we do? Can we run, you know, some kind of you once we start seeing this thing work, can we actually feed the results back in and see if it can self-optimize? You have to hold on to that experimental kind of playful approach to technology a lot longer than you think than you think you would because it's so easy to start to converge on a local optima for the the class of system that's being built.
That's phenomenal advice.
Um last question for me.
Um what are some real world use cases for MCP that you've seen that are have a lot of potential moving forward or what what do you use in your day-to-day life? Yeah.
So, I mean, what I use I I'm starting to use MCP for pretty much everything.
Um, so you like I give you a couple of examples of things that we've done recently.
Um, you know, we built a system that indexes all of our internal documentation.
Um, it it it indexes um all of our Discord traffic.
It indexes our GitHub repos.
And it basically is has built a semantic engine that that now um enables me to during my day-to-day um task just ask questions.
I can pick whichever model I want.
And so we call it the the stack knowledge circle, right? And it's basically just a a robust knowledge base that that gives me access to everything and it's just it gets integrated into the tools that I'm using all the time.
Uh and we just built a lightweight chat interface on top of it because it's it's convenient to be able just go to a web page and ask questions about everything. um you know when we started looking at telemetry um we've built MCP servers that uh enable me to start you know asking questions around like what are we actually seeing out there which regions are we seeing use around like being able to process um time series telemetry data from things like the update service that we we we sort of offer which is basically it's it's completely anonymized we're not getting any information about what what a person's doing. we just see where things are that are requesting updates to to the underlying subsystem.
And and so, you know, being able to start just unlocking these this this world where I I'm changing how I work where I used to work by context shifting between a whole bunch of different tools.
Now I'm able to go to a single tool and rather than kind of you know trying to go to a different SAS tool to ask a question, I just go to one space, pick which tools I want to use, I can then ask the question in natural language and get synthesized results.
So the the the thing that like the the the promise of this is is is a fundamental change to how we work, right? It used to be like gosh, I don't even know how many SAS applications I touch on a day-to-day basis.
You know, if I'm interviewing a candidate, I go to a bunch of SAS applications.
If I'm trying to reason about what's happening in the community, I go to a bunch of different SAS applications.
If I, you know, if yeah, between GitHub and Discord and Google Drive, etc.
So, this this this shifted attention that's happening in in my day-to-day life towards this kind of centralized AI workbench where the data is being brought to me, not me going to the data, right? like the SAS systems become the system of record in the backends and the MCP servers become the gateway for me to be able to access data that can then be joined with other data that's relevant so that I can ask questions about you know what community issues are we seeing and has that have those issues affected our um you know like our uh ability to you know let me give you a better example like what campaigns have we run from a marketing perspective and how are those campaigns now actually affecting our um observ able um usage or or or access to our web properties or or all of these other things.
So you know my team is is going through the exercise of of look like taking this AI maximalist mindset looking at all the things we use and then asking the question like how do I make those accessible to this kind of AI workbench like how do the developers get that in cursor like as part of the day-to-day life how do I get that in you know in in in in whatever kind of environment that makes sense for me since I don't write a lot of code every day um and that's that's that's changing how I work and I think it's going to change how everyone works over time.
Love it.
Excellent, Craig.
I really appreciate you coming on.
This was an awesome chat.
Really think more people should try ToolHive and just put more thought into security as well as just see how they can leverage MCP to change the way they work.
Before I let you go, uh, where can people catch up on what Stacklock is doing? How can they get involved or test out ToolHive? Where where should people go? Um, you can go to toolhive.dev.
Um, we love to see people in the in the in the Discord community.
So, if you go to tool.dev, you can find the the GitHub profile. you can download the tool and try it yourself on your your local machine.
Um or if you want to just jump on the Discord server, say hi and uh we'd love to chat to you.
I'm in the Discord and it's a friendly group.
So encourage everyone to go there.
Craig, thanks again.
Take care.
Thank you for joining for my conversation with Craig McClucky.
I always have a great time talking to Craig and I really wanted you to get an understanding of the importance of security in this day and age with AI agents running around and people vibe putting up apps.
Security's really taken a backseat and that's kind of dangerous.
So using a tool like ToolHive, which I really recommend you check out, is is a great step in the right direction.
It's free and it's open source.
Check it out on GitHub.
Join the Stack Lock Discord.
I'm there.
You can come say hi.
But let's make sure that this next phase of development as we continue to accelerate includes a focus on security.
So, thank you for joining and I'll see you next