You've probably seen the thousands of LinkedIn CEO posts saying that code is cheap and they can move faster than ever before.
But what's happening is that AI has simply accelerated software entropy.
In other words, codebases are falling apart faster than they ever have before.
Because every time that you make a change that doesn't take into account the entire codebase, you are likely to introduce little things, weird things that make the codebase harder to change.
And over time, that just snowballs and snowballs until you end up with a huge ball of mud.
Sloppy, sloppy mud that is incredibly hard to reverse if you don't know how to do it.
I've made a video about this before introducing folks to the idea of deep modules.
And that video focuses more on prevention, how you can prevent your setup from getting to that point.
Let's now focus on the cure, how you can take a codebase that feels like it's beyond repair and rescue it.
And you can do that with some good old software fundamentals, as well as my improved codebase architecture skill.
We're going to be walking through what this skill does, revisiting some of the terms we looked at in the other video, then we're going to take that and apply it to a real codebase.
And this, by the way, is part of my GitHub Skills Repo, which is currently sitting at 41.5k stars.
Bonkers.
Now, one of the things that I added to this improved codebase architecture skill recently was a glossary of terminology.
Having a shared vocabulary with the AI is super important because it means that you can talk using the same language.
You can understand what each other's language is, and you can be a lot more precise with what you're asking for.
This here is super duper useful, and I'm going to spend a portion of this video going through what each of these terms actually mean.
Honestly, just understanding this stuff at a deep level will make you a better software developer.
So, let's get started by talking about modules.
A module is a unit of something in your application.
It could be a bunch of React components that all fit together to form a page.
It could be a bunch of functions inside your application that are entirely responsible for authentication.
Or it could simply be the logger that you've chosen, like a log into the console, log into a file, or log into a third-party service.
In a good code base, these modules talk to each other, and they talk to each other via their interfaces.
An interface is everything a caller must know to use the module correctly.
For instance, if it's an authentication module, then it might have a sign-in method, it might have a sign-out method.
And these methods are the interface to that module.
The methods are not the only thing that's important, the interface also includes kind of nebulous information about how to call the module.
So, perhaps it's documentation, too.
The implementation is then what's inside the module, what it actually does when you call sign-in or sign-out.
And so, this is the core primitive that we're talking about, the modules that have interfaces and implementations scattered throughout your application.
These modules can either be deep modules, or they can be shallow modules.
A deep module hides lots of implementation behind a relatively simple interface.
A shallow module has a complex interface and kind of not much implementation actually behind it.
These ideas are from John Osterhout's book A Philosophy of Software Design, which I recommend you pick up a copy of.
Deep modules are considered better than shallow modules because it hides more information away from the caller.
In other words, the person who's calling this, or the function that's calling this, only needs to know about this tiny little interface, and they'll get access to all of this implementation.
Lovely.
And so, that's what we describe as depth, the amount of behavior a caller can exercise per unit of interface that they have to learn.
Really good open-source libraries, like TanStack Query or something, have really good deep modules.
In other words, they're hiding a lot of complexity behind a super simple interface.
These modules then interact with each other, and they have dependencies on each other.
For instance, this module might interact with this module here, which then interacts with this module up here, and this module up here, and they have these dependency graphs between them.
These gaps between these modules are called the seams.
It's the location at which the modules interface lives inside the application.
These seams are usually where you're going to do your unit testing or your integration testing.
For instance, if we wanted to test this module in isolation down here, then we would add a mock or something just at this seam.
So, figuring out where your seams are going to live in your application is crucial to getting a good architecture.
When you find out where a seam is in your application, you need some concrete thing, a module, that satisfies that interface.
This is what I'm going to call an adapter, which I'm taking from hexagonal architecture.
For instance, if you have some kind of application that depends on a clock running, then you may want to have a clock, a normal clock inside here using the actual living clock, and then inside some tests, you may want to have an adapter that is a fake clock.
These both satisfy the interface at that seam, and it means that you can use the fake clock in tests, so you don't have to literally wait 2 weeks for your test to finish.
So, that's how seams and adapters play together.
The benefit of all this is that these deep modules have two main properties or two main benefits that you get from them.
For the maintainers, the people maintaining this module, they get locality.
Changes to that module and bugs and all the fixes to do with them, they concentrate in one place, in that deep module.
If it's scattered around over multiple different modules, then you have low locality.
You want high locality, grouping and co-locating the things that matter and that often change together.
The people using this module will get more leverage the deeper the module is.
In other words, more capability per unit of interface they have to learn.
And so, when we're talking about improving our code bases, these are the two attributes that we're aiming at.
Right, that's enough knowledge, we know the basic terms of engagement.
Now, let's go and improve a code base.
The code base we're going to look at is my course video manager code base, which is the repo of software that I'm actually using to record this video.
This code base has had, ooh, around 1,500 commits here, and I wouldn't say it's a ball of mud, but I also wouldn't say it's perfect, either.
It's a React Router application, it uses effect.ts under the hood.
Uh, let's get into it.
I'm going to open up a new Claude session inside here and I'm going to run my improved code base architecture skill and we'll turn off auto mode.
Auto mode does some funny things with these human in the loop style flows and so I don't want it on here.
We can see it's going and exploring and looking through the code.
That's what it's instructed to do first.
Here we go.
Explore architecture for deepening opportunities.
Usually a bad code base is one that has a ton of shallow modules in it or one that has very poor leverage for those modules or poor locality where lots of stuff is spread in lots of different places.
Okay, it's come back with some candidates here.
Let's bump up the screen size and hopefully Claude code won't just destroy itself.
Okay, I guess maybe we're not bumping up the screen size.
Thank you for that Claude code.
We can see it's identified six deepening opportunities here.
These candidates here are pretty hard to explain because they sort of require domain knowledge about my repo, but we can see here that it's saying that there's a concept that doesn't have a single seam.
In other words, there are two implementations of this insertion point and they live in parallel and the seam where they must be is untested.
This essentially means that the front end could make some changes um but the back end because it has a separate parallel implementation could be out of sync with it.
So, this I think is actually a really good candidate for refactoring into a single module.
We gain locality.
And it says that here we would gain locality.
The interleaved clip clip section ordering rule lives in one place.
So, let's go and take a look at that.
Let's actually say, yeah, I'd like to pick one here.
That seems like a good candidate.
So, let's fire that off and Okay, Claude is trolling me here.
It says, I'd like to pick one.
I meant I meant one.
Great.
Okay, so it now has come back with it's got concrete code on both sides to to ground this and it enters a grilling session.
And in this grilling session we can take the ideas inside here and we can start kind of talking about what a better solution would be.
This is a nice sentence here.
The back end has no end.
Let's not think about that too literally.
What you end up doing with this skill is you end up talking about the potential proposed solution, and it will then propose a shape.
And once that's all done, you can take that and you can put that in as a GitHub issue into your issue tracker, which can then be picked up by an AFK agent.
You should check out my video on Sandcastle if you're interested in that.
Now, in the course of normal development, what I would do is go through and thoughtfully answer each of these questions in turn.
But since I'm doing a video and this is slightly artificial, I'm going to say, "Could you just choose your recommended answers for each of these questions?" And that should speed us through to actually making the change or potentially creating an issue out of this.
So, it's now coming back with a proposed module shape, and it's also asking to verify a particular part of the implementation where end is collapsed and to sketch the actual TypeScript interface.
Yeah, go ahead and do both.
That sounds great.
Let's ping that off and see what it says.
Okay, it has figured out the implementation detail it needed, and it's come back and proposed a design here.
So, which of these functions are going to be essentially the uh the interface for this module.
And so, we can talk about this with the AI and figure it out.
It's again come back with two design decisions that it wants my feedback on.
And here, I think you've got the flavor of how this skill works and the kind of conversations that you end up having with the AI based on this.
If I want to turn this into an issue that my AFK agent picks up, I can use two PRD or two issues here.
And by the way, if you're interested in these skills that I'm talking about, then you should check out this site here, which is linked below.
I'm going to be creating a real documentation site for these skills, and for now, I have a newsletter that you can sign up to for the latest updates, as well as tips and tricks and resources for getting the most out of agents.
The thing that's important to notice here is just how much this skill demands of you, the user.
This is not an AFK skill that you can just sort of run and kind of like uh just rely on to continually improve your code base.
This requires a judgment call from you, the programmer sitting above the LLM.
I think of agents as really, really good tactical programmers.
They're able to get on the ground and make changes quickly.
But they need someone on the level above them who is the strategic programmer.
And that's what this skill does.
It allows the sergeant to go and run around the code base and look for potential improvement opportunities.
But then you, the general, have to go and actually make the change and decide what's good for the long-term health of the code base.
I recommend that you run this skill, you know, every couple of days, really.
Especially in a code base that's fast-moving, you're going to come up with tons for deepening the code base.
And the deeper you get those modules, the higher leverage you're going to get out of them.
And leverage as well means testing.
If you have a set of really nice clear seams in your code base, then you're going to be able to write really nice tests around those nice deep modules.
And the better your tests are, the better the output from the agent is going to be.
One final thought here is that lots of folks ask me how you would get started by using AI in a legacy code base.
And a legacy code base is probably going to have a lot of shallow modules.
This I mean, we talk about legacy code bases, what we really mean are bad code bases.
Code bases that are hard to make changes in.
And what you really need before you start making changes in a legacy code base is a harness around the code base to make sure that your changes don't mess anything up.
So for that, you need tests, test, testing really nice deep modules that have a lot of leverage and locality.
So running improve code base architecture is a great place to start.
Thanks for watching, folks, and I hope that answers some of your questions about how to solve this never-ending problem of AI just running away and creating terrible code bases.
I hope you enjoy the skills.
Do follow the link below if you want to find more of them.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.
And what you really need before you start making changes in a legacy code bases