[music] >> All right, good morning everyone.
Uh welcome to my talk building AI systems that ship.
I'm Nick Nisi and I work at WorkOS.
We've got a booth downstairs.
Come check us out and talk to us.
We'd be happy to chat.
Uh but let me start that over.
Hi, I'm the bottle neck.
Uh I'm a DX engineer at WorkOS and I work on 20 plus repos across eight different languages.
Uh it's all of our SDKs and open source things that we have.
And the it's like AuthKit Next.js, AuthKit React, WorkOS Node, WorkOS Kotlin, WorkOS Ruby, PHP, everywhere.
So, there's a lot to do across a lot of different things.
And I'm really good at working on those.
And I've gotten really good over the last eight months working with those via agents.
So, I haven't written a line of code myself in probably eight months.
Uh I've gotten really good at just scaling that with agents and then reviewing what they do and then instructing them and getting the work done faster and better while still maintaining good quality.
Uh but there was a big problem doing that uh with one agent at a time across all of these repos.
I'm just constantly context switching over and over and over.
Uh and it just gets harder and harder uh and that's okay, but the problem is that for every one of those there's like this little bit of setup time that I'm doing each time, which is like giving it 10 minutes of my time to like set up and establish the problem.
Let's look at this GitHub issue.
Let's look at this linear ticket.
Let's take a look at this Slack thread and figure out what's going on and see if we can reproduce the issue and then uh go.
So, that was a lot of my time just spent dealing with the agent, getting it basically the context that I already have, and then getting it to work on it from there.
Now, on the other side, I'm also working on products that uh we want to build for agents because while I said I'm a developer experience engineer, the developer is still the most important uh in in my job, but increasingly the pipeline to get to that developer is through agents.
And so, I see the agentic experience as being equally as important because that's how we're going to get in front of the developers.
So, there's two different ways I needed to go AI native and two different directions for that.
So, on the internal side building that, I started building this project called case.
Uh this is a harness.
If you've read Ryan the Populous Harness Engineering, it's that.
Uh just kind of took those ideas and started building them.
Uh basically I give it a GitHub issue, a PR, uh a Slack thread, a linear ticket, anything, and I could just point it at it and it could figure out the context that it needs and go.
And then it wouldn't stop until it has a PR with evidence that it actually did what I asked it to or what the problem was or what fixed what the issue was.
Uh but it most importantly it had to provide that evidence.
And it this originally started as a Claude skill because uh why not? I thought Claude could do could do anything.
And it was working really well, but as it got more complex, uh the context drop became very real.
It would just start forgetting things or skipping over tasks.
And I would ask Claude, "Why did you do that?" It's like, "Oh yeah, you told me to do that.
I decided not to." Not great.
So, uh I rebuilt it on top of Pi and using a a TypeScript state machine to facilitate going through and and stepping through these agents.
So, it has five different agents in it, an implementer, a verifier, a reviewer, a closer, and a retro agent.
And those are important, but they're not the most important thing.
The most important piece of case is the gates in between that.
And that's what the the um uh state machine really enforces is the checks in between everything.
So, when we implement something, we can't move on to the reviewer until the verifier verifies it.
And once the the reviewer reviews it, if there's any issues, it has to send it back to the implementer to do those.
Uh and once all of that's done, the closer can work.
But the closer can't work until it thinks that it's done.
And the closer is there to provide evidence.
And then the retrospective is there to analyze the entire performance.
It looks at the logs of everything that case did and says, "What could I've done better?" And then it updates its own memory system to ensure that the next time it can skip some steps if it if it went in circles for a little bit.
Uh and it can give itself some hints on where to go so that the next time it works on that project, it doesn't hit the same roadblocks.
Uh So, the next agent doesn't really matter.
Um proving that the work matters.
Proving that what happened in each of these states is what matters.
And that word there proving is the most important piece of that because the agents, they would just lie to me all the time.
Uh I would ask it, "Hey, you need to run the tests." And this was more when it was a skill and it would I would be like, "Hey, you need to run these tests and make sure that the tests actually pass." And one way to do that uh was I just had it check for a dot case tested file.
And if that that file existed, great.
It ran the tests, perfect.
Well, it figured it out pretty fast.
Claude would just touch that file and be like, "Yep, I ran the tests." Such a junior engineer, I swear.
Um so, I had to figure out a way to prove that.
So, one way to do that was just to uh actually take the test output and SHA-256 that and save that into the case tested file and then verify cryptographically, yes, you actually ran the tests.
And really like the the main piece there is that I just made it easier to just do the work that I wanted it to do rather than lie about it.
And that's really the main thing.
Um it stopped lying not because I asked it very nicely, I made it prove it that it was going to actually do the work each time.
Now, on that was on the inward side.
On the outward side with the WorkOS CLI, uh this is a tool that our customers use.
And it can do lots of things, but its kind of headlining feature is that it can install AuthKit for you.
One of the biggest pain points when we're trying to you know, ask someone to to look at our product or they're interested in it is, "Oh, I'd have to go spend some time and get it set up and read the docs and all of that." Not anymore.
With WorkOS install, it just goes and figures out what project you're in. "Oh, you're in a Next.js project.
You're in a TanStack project.
You're in a Ruby project.
I'll figure that out.
Oh, you've already got Auth0 set up? I can easily remove that and put in AuthKit and we'll be good." And it does it in less than 5 minutes.
If you don't have a WorkOS account, it will provision one for you that you can go claim later.
So, there is zero friction to getting it set up.
And that's a really important piece of being uh agentically forward in our public-facing persona and how we how our customers use us and how uh they perceive us.
But there's problems with that, too.
As I was building it, uh it would be overly confident just like these models always are and say, "Yep, I did that." One of the the cases of that was I was trying to uh install into a TanStack start project.
TanStack start's relatively new.
It's still in RC and uh it's changing constantly.
Well, case uh sorry, the CLI made some changes.
It installed it and it made some changes to a file called start.ts.
That file is kind of implicit has it has an implicit contract with TanStack.
It's uh got a it has to export certain things.
And we kind of messed that up.
The code looked right to me.
It looked right to uh Claude, but it did not look right to TanStack start.
So, boom, it failed.
Uh and so, we had to figure out a way to tell it when it failed or make it understand that.
And I thought, "Oh, well, we just need some skills, right?" Skills are the way to do that.
So, I started teaching it, making these skills.
And of course, I thought, "You know what? We have these great docs.
I can just take our docs and generate some skills." So, I generated over 10,000 lines of skills uh that were all based on our docs.
And I did it in this really elaborate way where it would like take sections of our docs and make skills about them.
And then it would like uh put a little comment in the skill with the cryptographic hash of the current state of that section of the docs.
And it basically if I ran it again and that uh that SHA didn't change, don't update the skill.
So, it wasn't just constantly updating all the time.
I thought I was being really clever and awesome.
Uh and I generated this huge thing.
And I even made some evals for it.
I started making those and it would take me 68 minutes to run those scenarios.
It was just crazy.
Uh and it would fail over and over and it would have these retries and and get there eventually, but it was like a lot of work, a lot of tokens.
Um so, I had more tokens.
I thought more tokens, great.
That's way better.
Uh but it ended up producing worse results.
And it was really the measurement there, the evals that were telling me, "Hey, this isn't right." So, I rewrote it by hand.
Uh and instead of focusing on covering comprehensively everything that we have in our docs, I was like, "Oh, I just have to cover some common gotchas for everything." So, for our entire docs, instead of having 10,000 lines of that, I have 553 lines of gotchas.
And these are just like the most common things uh that came up as I was running these evals over and over and over.
They ran faster, way smaller uh in terms of token count, uh only took 6 minutes per run, and uh I wasn't sending the the models on these long goose chases by having it, you know, go check a whole bunch of different things.
It would stay focused on things.
Uh and so, by deleting 95% of that, the performance of it actually went up.
And I really only knew that because I measured it.
So, looking at that, I like had one skill in particular that I could see.
And when I ran it with that skill and I I gave it a task and said, "Hey, load this skill and then do this task." It got it correct 77% of the time.
But if I asked it to do the same task without loading the skill, it was correct 97% of the time.
So, I was actively making it worse, and I only knew about that because I was measuring it.
And so, evals are super important when you're working with this non-deterministic code.
Uh Claude makes it really easy now.
They have like evals a Claude a Claude skill skill that will do evals for you.
Uh and it'll even set up it'll create like an HTML output of that and show you like side by side.
I ran a bunch like this and a bunch without the skill, and here's the results.
Use that, measure, and see where you're actually falling apart because I thought I was making things a lot better by having a whole bunch of code.
I just needed to trust that the the model already knew how to code, and I just had to kind of gently nudge it in the right direction in some cases.
So, what did I actually learn from both of these systems? Uh basically, you want to enforce things, don't instruct.
Uh the model can lie about it.
It can decide not to pull thing to not to do certain things because either it forgot about it, uh it got distracted with other things, uh but if you actually set up a pipeline where it's has to enforce itself and prove to you that it did what you asked it to do, then you're going to have a better time for sure.
And oftentimes with a lot less tokens.
Uh you want to guide the model, don't prescribe it.
So, don't just give it like, "Hey, here's a summary of all of my docs with like a whole bunch of information." You want to just prescribe it, "Hey, when you're working in uh Next.js uh and you're in the proxy, you want to do this.
If you're not in the proxy, you can't call redirects." That's a really big one that constantly comes up over and over and over.
Uh it would just put those everywhere.
And so, guide it, but uh don't prescribe to it.
And then, of course, measure, don't pursue uh don't assume that it works.
Uh just trust uh that it has a Trust is a pass rate, uh hash, a delta score, anything like that, so that you can prove to it.
One of the things that Case does at the end uh as part of its reviewer uh script, I still read all of the code that it generates uh to make sure that it's actually like code that I would be proud of shipping, but I'm not even going to waste my time looking at that code until it's proved to me that it did whatever I asked in a non-code way.
And so, the main way for that is like if it's working on a UI bug, I want it to use the Playwright CLI and record a video of itself doing something before and then doing it after the fix and showing me, "Hey, now it's fixed.
It's working." And if it can prove that to me in those videos that it attaches to the PR, I'm way more inclined to look at that PR and say, "Yeah, okay, we can just, you know, fix some of the the weird things that it did, but it did do the work correctly." And I'm way more incentivized to waste my time and become that bottleneck to getting through that.
If not, uh I just ask it to do it again.
So, every failure uh became data for the next run.
This is another important thing is when things failed, and this is this goes back to that harness engineering thing like uh if you are working on a harness and it is making mistakes, don't go fix the mistakes that it made, fix the harness so that it can fix the mistakes.
Um in Ryan Leuppolo, I don't I don't I didn't see his talk uh here, but uh I saw a a talk on Zoom, and he talked about how their team would never work on the code itself.
They would only work on the harness to fix the code itself.
And I really took that to heart with Case, so I only work on Case itself to make sure that it's doing what I want.
Uh and if it fails, then we do it again, and that becomes part of its memory.
And that's the other big piece of it is that as Case is running, the final piece of it is this retrospective agent.
And all it does is it looks at what it did, and it goes in and looks at like the the Claude and Codex transcripts uh like the JSONL files, and it pulls out information.
Hey, was I running a lot of tools at the same time? Did I run the same tool request three times in a row without any changes to anything? Was I like getting in a doom loop there like trying to identify those things and see what it can do better.
And then, internally, Case keeps a whole bunch of memory files as markdown files, and it just understands like, "Okay, in I have a general memory file.
If I'm working in Next.js, I have a Next.js memory file, a TanStack Start memory file, etc." And it figures out where to put information about that.
So that it won't make a mistake and break the start.ts in TanStack Start again.
It knows about that because it put it into its memory.
And one thing that I want to add is like that auto dream thing that Claude is now doing where it can kind of prune its memory over time.
That'll be the next piece that I add to it.
Um but making sure that it can learn from its mistakes, and it can do it automatically, and then you can also provide feedback.
Have a way for you to provide the feedback to it as well.
And then, the next time it you give it a task, it's just going to be that much better.
And eventually, you're just going to start trusting it more and more and more.
And if you're making your product work for agents, uh there's a couple of important things as well.
Uh figure out what the agents get reliably wrong about your product and focus on that.
Don't focus on the product as a whole because it probably knows a lot about it a lot more than you think about it.
You write down write down write down those gotchas, uh create skills around those.
Uh you can create tutorials, too, uh but don't rely on that.
The models can read the tutorials and and learn from that.
Um but just remember that the models know how to code.
They just need to know the intricacies of your product and where the landmines are in that.
And of course, measure what you're shipping.
Um you want to understand where the model is failing for your particular product and make sure that you focus on that.
And the only way that you can do that is through things like evals.
Otherwise, you just might be adding noise and sending the model on wild goose chases.
Uh and think about the consumers in the way that you think about uh developers.
Like think about those agents uh in the same way that you think about developers.
What do they want to know? How can I make things better for them? Do I have a lot of JavaScript loading on my page after the fact that's adding a whole bunch of context that maybe is not getting added when whatever uh process they use to go pull uh and summarize the information on your page? Uh is that getting lost to them? Make sure that it's not.
Um and if you're making agents work for you like in uh the case of Case, um you replace your trust with evidence.
Never trust it.
Always make it prove to you that it did something.
Um if it ran the test, make it prove it.
If it uh fixed a UI bug, it has to show it to you.
Uh otherwise, don't waste your time on it.
Uh and enforce that with with code uh not prompts.
So, this is why I I switched it to Pi and used a state machine to force it because I have full control over that state machine, and it's outside of the Pi or Claude deciding, "Uh should I do this or not?" No, you have to do it.
I enforce that through that loop.
And then, every failure becomes uh a system bug.
Uh each time it messes up on something, that's a bug in the harness.
Go fix the harness.
So, really um the agent just uh you you want to build the environment that the agent that you can work with the agent in uh and focus on that.
Um the practices that we have haven't really changed.
Uh our job hasn't really changed.
Uh we've just kind of abstracted it a little bit.
Uh your job was never really about writing code.
It was always about building these systems, and now we just have a better abstraction to understand that.
Uh so, take that into account and um and go forward from there.
Uh so, that's the talk.
Uh thank you, and I'd be happy to answer any questions with the time I have left. >> [applause] [music] [music]