Hey everybody, welcome to Moonshots.
We have a special end of the year holiday episode for you with our 2026 predictions from the Moonshot mates. >> You must have inside scoop on this. >> We'll find out, won't we? >> He's got a Santa hat on.
You got to take him seriously. >> Perfecting orbital refueling, getting ready. >> We're already leaking the prediction.
You're already >> It's been 6 minutes. >> I can generate, you know, a few dozen Peterbots and have them attend the meetings instead of me.
Well, Gold Star, the first fan who gets their spouse or significant other fooled by this during 2026, send in the video.
Don't cheat. >> I push back on the robots uh side just a bit, but just >> You always You hate the robots. >> I know.
I struggle with that. >> 2026 is going to feel like the future. >> This year didn't feel like the future to you. >> It It felt like the future, but next year is going to feel more like the future. >> Now, that's a moonshot, ladies and gentlemen.
Over to you guys. >> Got so much change this year.
Next year is going to be, you know what, orders of magnitude more change.
And so, uh, a real challenge to narrow it down to just a couple of things.
So, everybody had what, five, six, seven great predictions and the team here whittleled it down to the two most impactful.
So, that's what we're going to go through. >> Yeah.
Fantastic.
Immod. >> Yeah.
I think that 2025 has been a real gift with the acceleration that we've seen and next year is the year of real takeoff.
It's tough doing the predictions cuz a lot of these things are inevitable, but it seems like the future is coming even closer and so it's super exciting to see what's going to come. >> Love it.
Salem, >> I think 2026 is the year that everybody wakes up to this acceleration.
And I think Dave made the point that you could ignore it up till now, but you can't ignore it going forward.
And I think that's the biggest change we'll see in the world as people go, "Holy crap, this is happening." >> Okay, Alex, welcome to the singularity.
The year 2025 is now ending.
The year 2026 is about to begin.
It's not a point in time.
It's not a distant vertical mountain on the horizon.
It's a process.
And right here at the end of 2025, in the midst of the singularity, spacetime is feeling perfectly flat.
And as I like to say, it's coming faster and faster, so don't blink.
All right, let's jump into our 2026 predictions.
So guys, here's the deal.
I mean, you guys all submitted incredibly good 2026 predictions.
I mean, some of you had like four or five amazing ones, and cutting them down to two each was like the most difficult problem I had this morning.
So, >> so far at 5:30 a.m., that's the hardest thing you've done all day. >> Yeah. >> I thought the consensus was that compression is the root of intelligence. >> Uh, yes.
And listen, I don't know.
You guys obviously did not get the memo about the Santa hats, >> but >> Yeah.
Where was that? We missed that memo. >> Well, hey, >> the Coca-Cola company thanks you, Peter.
Yeah. >> Uh, I think we should get going.
What do you think? >> Let's predict.
I can't wait. >> Yeah.
So, all right.
Let's get this show on the road.
So, here's the deal.
Here's the rules of the competition.
These are our 2026 predictions for our Moonshot mates.
Uh, we have, uh, Immod, AWG, Salem, DB2, myself.
We get two each. uh really hard because everybody put in incredibly good ones.
Uh it's a minute to pitch it, three or four minutes of commentary, questions or additions.
And uh we're going to do this one tight and fast.
And uh yeah, I think it's time to jump in.
So >> the team behind the scenes cut it down, too.
We do not actually know what made the final selection aggressive >> you don't know.
And the the order you don't know, but I'm going to kick it off just to sort of model this. >> Wait, we don't get to pick which two of ours.
No, no.
They they picked for you.
You have to >> Oh, so this is like a lottery type situation.
This is like let's make a deal. >> Dang.
Okay, >> you guys ready? >> So, here is my first prediction. 2026 space race is going to be on.
Jeff Bezos is going to beat Elon to the moon uh for a landing at Shackleton Crater on the South Pole.
But at the same time, Elon's going to be getting ready to launch Starship to Mars.
So, there's a uh a window coming up where Earth and Mars are in closest proximity, and he's going to make that launch.
Uh in order to do that, he's going to have to demonstrate in early 2026 on orbit refueling.
So, it'll be something on the order of a 6 to9 month transit to the uh to get to Mars.
So, this is the prediction.
This is the space race.
It is, you know, you have to be clear that right now Elon's done over 500 launches of of Falcon uh a Falcon 9, 11 launches of Starship.
Starship's last launch was pretty damn good, but it's not ready for Mars yet.
So, a lot of work needs to be done in 2026.
At the same time, uh Jeff, who started actually Blue Origin a couple years before Elon, has only done two flights of the new Glenn, uh, one of those flights, the last one did a first stage landing.
Uh, so there you got it.
That's my prediction.
Uh, Jeff on the moon first in 2026 and Elon prepping for a transition to Mars.
Um, any thoughts, questions, comments? Well, Peter, this is like the first three seasons of For All Mankind, but I I guess the the question that the headline elides is where's China in this race. >> Uhhuh.
That is a great question and I have no predictions on China.
China's capacity for getting to uh to Mars isn't there yet.
Uh they do have the ability to get to the moon.
I think Tyonauts on the moon uh versus Americans on the moon.
So, don't forget the first landing of New Glenn is going to be a cargo mission.
Uh we're going after the South Pole.
Why? Because that's where the ice is.
Uh most of the moon whenever any kind of uh you know asteroid commentary ice lands on the lunar surface, it sublimates, goes from solid to gas and escapes instantly.
But in the permanently shadowed craters of the south pole of the moon, uh one in particular, Shackleton crater, the ice stays there because it's dark all the time.
And ice on the moon means hydrogen and oxygen.
It means rocket fuel.
Other comments, questions? >> So, this is a unmanned uh >> unman unmanned 2026 >> in 2026.
Is that really in the schedule? >> You must have inside scoop on this. >> Hey, uh we'll we'll find out, won't we? >> Wow, >> he's got a Santa hat on.
You got to take them seriously aggressive prediction.
It encourages it. >> Yeah, that's quite a timeline.
That's impressive if that pulls off. >> Oh, >> but I love the story line here, too.
It's exactly like uh yeah, like for all mankind, you know, we're we're behind over here.
We need to we need to show the world that we can catch up and bypass.
And so let's go to the moon. >> You know what I love? >> I love So guys, give me a vote.
You agree, disagree? >> I'd say 30% chance of that happening. >> 30%. >> Okay.
Awesome. >> I agree.
I agree directionally that there is a three-way race right now between Blue Origin, SpaceX, and China.
Particular ordering, no opinion. >> I I love it.
It's it's billionaire billionaire country. >> And I love the fact that the rocket in this in your thing looks exactly like the little butane blaster that I have that you gave me, Peter. >> You're welcome for that.
And by the way, the blue both both of these are AI versions of the uh some version of the of the future.
And of course, Blue Origin is not landing the entire rocket on the lunar surface.
All right, I think we should move on.
Uh, prediction number two is coming from Alex AWG here. >> All right.
So, we've talked on the pod previously about hard problems in math, science, engineering, and medicine starting to fall in bulk to AI.
So, this is my hot take for for 2026.
I I think we're going to see one of the six remaining Millennium prizes from the Clay Mathematics Institute get solved by AI.
I'm not sure which one it's going to be.
If I had to bet, I I think Navier Stokes is probably the likeliest.
Google DeepMind has a team reportedly of 12 people working on it.
I know some of those people.
Maybe second that would be Remon uh in part because XAI at every opportunity talks about how it would be lovely if the Remon hypothesis could be fully resolved.
But either way, I I think we're going to start to see grand challenges in math start to get solved in 2026 and a Millennium Prize problem being solved would be the the cherry on top of the cake. >> Do you think that solution will be like short, elegant, and beautiful or like 10,000 pages of stuff that only you understand? Given that the the pattern in AI crushing math seems to be that the goalpost keeps getting moved, I I would bet that the the the silliest, most outrageous outcome probably ends up being the right one.
So, I I I would er on the side of complexity and then you'll see the math community complain, well, it was brute force, it was this, it was that, it wasn't pretty enough.
The goalpost gets moved yet again.
But, as as friend of the pod ray likes to say, yeah, sure, the dog plays chess, but its endgame is weak.
Emide any comments on this one? >> Yeah.
No, I think probably one of them will fall and then AI will probably show that another one is not well posed.
So, I think that would be the flip as well.
I think that we've seen even in the last few weeks the new automatic provers.
The math community is like, "Oh my god, what's happening? We have to reimagine this all." um the whole nature of math is changing and it's a real takeoff moment now cuz you can just apply more and more and more compute to explore the space but more than that think about it from first principles. >> So the question actually is you know okay this will happen but will it actually make headline news? Will anybody care other than other than uh our friends here in the pod and the math community? >> Clear clearly Peter I mean it it it will make national moonshots newspaper news.
It already has. >> All right.
We're we're forming a media company, obviously. >> Wait, I have a quick question.
Does this is there now a direct line between solving between compute and solving these problems? Like there's nothing in the middle. >> That's the trillion dollar question.
C can we scalably convert compute into new discoveries? That that is the multi-t trillion dollar question at the moment.
My bet is yes.
Yeah, we're seeing the initial stages of that in that they're solving all of Oiler's problems one by one and more elegantly in many cases just by applying thousands >> problems I think right yeah sorry every week my team and I study the top 10 technology meta trends that will transform industries over the decade ahead I cover trends ranging from humanoid robotics AGI and quantum computing to transport energy longevity and more there's no fluff only the most important stuff that matters that impacts our lives our companies in our careers.
If you want me to share these metat trends with you, I write a newsletter twice a week, sending it out as a short two-minute read via email.
And if you want to discover the most important meta trends 10 years before anyone else, this report's for you.
Readers include founders and CEOs from the world's most disruptive companies and entrepreneurs building the world's most disruptive tech.
It's not for you if you don't want to be informed about what's coming, why it matters, and how you can benefit from it. to subscribe for free.
Go to dmmandis.com/metatrends to gain access to the trends 10 years before anyone else.
All right, now back to this episode.
All right, Dave, you got the third prediction.
Jump in. >> All right, so this is a topic I care most about in technical land in 2026 and I'm following very very closely.
We we've predicted on the podcast all throughout 2025 that 2026 will be a 40xy year leap in the size of the biggest AI models and the implications are staggering.
So I think what we're going to see is more like a 100x year because people have underestimated quantization.
This is mostly research coming from China.
It's actually driven and forced by the fact that they've been starved of chips by the the chip embargo and they're researching like crazy on these highly compressed data representations.
So, so FP4 and then turnary weights in the neural net really shrinking the parameters down to the smallest possible representation and also shrinking the activations that flow through the neural net.
And so the the combination of those two things is a huge step up in inference time speed.
And I think the biggest thing that happened in 2025 in AI is we were blown away by how much more intelligence you can create after training.
So you know post training either using bigger context windows or using more iterations in the thinking.
And so speed means intelligence.
Those are interchangeable.
And so I think that we've way underestimated the impact of quantization.
And you know the other dimensions that are growing are the budgets are getting much bigger.
So the computers are getting bigger and then the hardware is also getting faster and the algorithms are improving.
So those are all multiplicative.
And I think the quantization effect is way underestimated.
And we're going to see models at the end of the year that are 100x bigger in just raw parameter count and parameter flips or parameter use during inference time because of quantization breakthroughs. >> And does this flow to the US models as well or does this something that China has got some advantage over the US on? >> I think the it definitely does because China's open sourcing everything.
So it does flow back to the US but I think we're also kind of lagging in realizing the implications and getting it up and running.
And so what's happening right now is the the Chinese because they're starved of chips are designing their own chips, building their own fabs, and they'll design those chips from the ground up to be uh FP4 and turnary and so they'll get them out the door faster, but it will flow back to the US. >> Amazing.
I ask Dave, obvious question in my mind, Dave, do you think binary was a mistake? Have we been on the wrong track all these years? Should we instead have adopted Turner? There there's a vocal minority in the computer science world that's always agitating for base e the the oiler number approximately 2.718 being the optimal radics like should we have been turnary all along >> isn't the obvious explain what Turner is for those who don't know >> base 3 computing in this case rather than base 2 so 0 1 and two as the the trits rather than zero and one as the bits >> isn't the answer obvious yes Why do you think that's silly? >> Well, just because you just get so much more.
This is the beauty of quantum computing.
You add that other dimension.
It's a similar thing.
I remember seeing a project where they took the base 4 DNA actg and they added two more and they were you just get that many more combinatorial options for doing stuff more complicated but amazing. >> Comes at a cost to radex economy.
I'm curious Dave is turnary the the true path.
No, I'm I'm going to go with no on that, but I think it's a close call.
I don't I don't think it's an easy question at all.
I I think what'll happen is, you know, doing 64-bit floats will look really stupid in hindsight.
And whether you get to binary or turnary solutions, you're very very close to optimal.
This is really geeky, by the way.
Um but uh but I think that'll be the the big story line.
But it's a really cool question, Alex. >> Okay, I'm going to vote this as the geekiest prediction for 2026. >> Wait, I want to mention one thing, Dave.
You said the the models next year I'll have a 100x improvement over this year.
That's incredible. >> It's crazy.
It's crazy.
You have to put it in the context of, you know, most of our history has been uh 2x every 18 months >> and then the last 10 years has been 10x year-over-year, which is just insane.
That's why you're seeing all this insane capability.
But a 100x step up year within the insanity is a next level of insanity. >> That's what that's what Elon predicted when he was on stage at the Abundance Summit a couple years ago. 100x a year.
Emod, any any comments here? >> Yeah, I think we're we've already seen Turner kind of work out.
So, we'll see probably 1.58 bit and I think the limits probably 0.9 bits uh which is versus four bits that we have right now. >> That's what we kind of calculated.
So, I think probably 10 times, maybe we'll push to 20.
We'll see. >> Okay.
All right.
Well, uh faster AI is the prediction here.
Uh not a surprise.
By the way, I want to make a quick correction uh on my original prediction.
Number one, the uh the Earth Mars window is in 2027 uh for Elon to launch.
So 2026 is really when he's perfecting orbital refueling, getting ready. >> We're already leaking the prediction.
You're already >> No, no, I'm just minutes. >> I was like I was like looking at what generated as a slide versus what I had written.
Anyway, doesn't matter.
Let's go on to >> It's December 27th.
You can always leave for the home and transfer early and just wait around. >> Number four, Salem, this is yours.
Jump in, pal. >> Yeah.
So, companies for a couple of decades have been doing this. >> Read read your prediction first off. >> So, the prediction is digital transformation in organizations is officially dead, replaced by AI native rewrites.
Uh, and this is a a prediction that I've been waiting to see for a long time where trying to fix your existing company just simply does not work in an age of AI because it's too humanentric and essentially you I made the comment the other day about putting radio announcers on TV which is the first thing we did when television thing we're essentially doing the same thing we're we're automating the human flow whereas you really need to re transform workflow and I think we'll have AI native rewrites which means you'll take your existing existing company on the edge.
You'll create an AI team or buy or rent or whatever and then build an equivalent capability like a red team kind of capability along the edge.
And this will be the end of this whole mess called digital transformation that's been going on for a couple of decades in the systems integration and management consulting world.
Uh and we'll do this complete thing on the edge where you build rebuild your capability with uh at least 10x to 20x less employees. uh and that's going to start to take hold in a big way in 2026.
So AI won't destroy your company, but your org chart will if you don't do this. >> What happens to all the consulting companies then? Are they going out of business? That's this is >> actually have a weirdly positive because you know in the land of the blind, the oneeyed man is king and the consulting companies always need to if they stay half a step ahead of their clients, they're fine.
And in a more and more volatile world, you need more advisors, not less.
So I think the consulting companies will have to radically transform their business model.
But I think they'll actually be fine.
The other big area I point out when I talk to the CEOs of the big consulting folks is that we have to rethink all of our public institutions and that's the biggest consulting opportunity in the history of mankind.
So point there.
So that's my prediction. >> I have a question for Sim if I may.
Is AI native rewrites a euphemism for human free? >> Yes. >> Not not completely human free but but AI AI first.
Okay. because you want the you want the human being in the loop doing sense checking etc.
I think we'll write around even bolog's middle to middle commentary because when you can rewrite the task and and look through across the board, the human being is the is usually the thing stuck in the middle.
You don't want that bottleneck.
You make you make that outside and the human being is kind of spot-checking and exception handling. >> Nice.
Any other comments on this gentleman? Immod you buy this? >> Yeah, I think it's reasonable.
I think you know what consultant's job will be will be scapegoat for a while you know you're in that end and that'll be very lucrative someone to blame if it goes wrong uh but definitely next year is the year that it starts becoming right as it were well if anyone's a consultant out there watch our our Matt Fitzpatrick podcast that we just did we we really covered this topic well >> all right let's go on to prediction number five coming from Immod I love this one >> yeah I think you know we have this read the headline first offer to do that. >> Remote touring test passed.
Can't tell if a co-orker is an AI or a human on Zoom in daily life. >> So, >> good one. >> I think the whole thing about AI cutting coming forward is just how easy is it to use.
A prompt is not that natural as it were.
I think the new modality, the new UI will be real time Zoom calls, WhatsApp calls, etc.
And you will see new employees entering your organization.
You don't know if it's a human or an AI because doesn't really matter in that case.
And I think >> give us really specific uh give us really specific rules for this one because this is going to really catch and and people want to test it. >> So what like what resolution camera? How long of a conversation? >> I think it it's up to 4K resolution effectively, but definitely 1080p zoom level conversation.
And you can do a kind of preference analysis here like is it a human or is it an AI effectively? who is your teammate.
So I think that you will see full stack solutions come out with accountants and lawyers and marketers and more and basically you won't be able to tell in a preference study if it is a human or an AI on the other side.
Again this remote touring test will there be a requirement that the AI identifies itself as an AI or that there's a watermark of some type or can you just you know can it try and fool you? What do you think is going to happen on that social contract side of the equation? >> Well, so the social contract is the external employees, right? Like a customer service agent doesn't need to identify as an AI.
Most people say probably no, but someone like a presenter maybe yes.
Internally in companies, there's going to be no regulations around this, right? It's just again, if you're a remote first company, you're just going to have a lot more teammates with personalities and you won't know if they're AIS or humans. >> Fascinating.
Other comments? >> I I think you'll see to the extent state laws at least in in the US have uh have any sort of primacy here.
I think you'll see and have already seen state laws requiring AI selfidentification.
My question for you is what do you view as the key technical obstacle to to making this happen? Is it latency based? What's the what's the key tech unlock? >> I think all the tech is there now.
If you kind of look at the latest advances in video generation, speech avatars, speech itself, they've all now got to beyond human level.
So you can transform a video dynamically.
You can have the speech generated dynamically.
The AI is fast enough on reasoning capabilities dynamically now as well.
And so I think it's just putting it all together, which is why I'm quite confident about this.
And then on state laws, it all depends if the federal law in the US goes through as well, which bans the states from having laws like this, >> which if if we're in 2026 and you can't tell anymore whether your coworker is an AI or not, just ask it to say some magic words.
You can probably figure out what those magic words are.
And if if the coworker refuses, probably an AI.
You're going to have to give the dictionary, Alej my my hope on the implication here is that I can generate, you know, a few dozen Peterbots and have them attend the meetings instead of me.
I mean, that will be the case here, right? It's not just a remote, you know, digital worker.
It's it's duplicate digital avatar versions of me. >> This is the one you'll keep, right? You you'll still be live here. >> Of course.
This is the most important thing I do. my flesh body with me. >> Everyone will send their digital twins and then just again live an abundance life cuz your digital twins will do all the work talking to each other. >> Well, Gold Star, the first fan who gets their spouse or significant other fooled by this during 2026.
Send in the video.
Don't cheat.
Send in the video of, you know, three at least three minutes where you fooled your spouse or significant other with an avatar. >> All right.
Uh let's move on to prediction number six which comes from AWG.
Uh Alex, read the headline and and give us your your prediction. >> All right.
So this is the one you selected.
So the the headline here is GDP val breakthrough AI projected to surpass 90% on economic tests.
But but I'm also going to sneak in my other two related predictions.
So one is that Frontier Math Tier 4 is going to pass 40% in 2026.
Another is that humanity's last exam is going to pass 75%.
So taken together, these three predictions are math is going to have been viewed future perfect tense a as having been solved in 2026 40% plus on solving PhD level hard math problems with AI.
Two is that humanity's last exam which covers a much broader range of expertise 75% and GDP val which as we've talked on the pod previously about the so-called cooking of of knowledge work 90% it's already at 70.9% with GPT 5.2 2, humanity's last exam is at around 45 plus% with Gemini 3 Pro and Frontier Math Tier 4 is at 19% with Gemini 3 Pros.
To the extent all of these benchmarks haven't already been viewed as being saturated this year, 2026 full saturation. >> My my prediction for 2026 is that AWG is going to be talking about benchmarks throughout the entire year. >> That's a good meta prediction. >> Yes.
But but Alex um what's what are the implications of this uh AI to surpass 90% on economic tasks? >> Knowledge work whether through creative destruction or otherwise starts at least as we know it.
I have to add the caveat.
It's not all future knowledge work.
It's just knowledge work as as currently constructed here in December 2025 starts to to be at scale radically automated.
So secondary implications are massive layoffs. >> Humanity gets humanity gets to work on more ambitious things.
I I I think more things.
So so there in my mind there are like two substitution effects.
One is humans can now work on many more projects because they're so automated. 90% on GDP val means roughly 90% of knowledge work can be automated well by AI.
That's one dimension.
The other dimension is the ambition level has got to skyrocket.
Rather than having an economy filled with the way knowledge work is currently constructed again here in December 2025, I think we're going to see and and frankly we're going to see economic pressure for radically more ambitious projects.
I I think Peter, you you would call them moonshots.
Some would call them grand challenges, but imagine a near-term future where a much larger fraction of the population is basically economically compelled to be working on moonshots.
I I think that's what we see. >> Can I can I double click on this just for a second? There's this massive concern in the general population that all the jobs are going to be wiped out and we'll have like tech workers wandering the streets causing problems and everybody's ringing their hands etc etc.
It's really really important what Alex said because when we've uh seen this in the past, we increase capacity.
We transform the work.
Yes, but we increase capacity radically.
Right? There's this big concern that oh my god 3 million jobs are are based on driving in the US.
And you talk go talk to the trucking companies and they're like we'd hire a thousand truckers if we could.
We just can't find them.
So you need that we'll just do a ton more is what's going to happen.
And I think people need to keep remembering the history has repeatedly and repeatedly shown that trend not radical job loss. >> Agreed. >> You know what I did this week actually on that exact front is uh went to a couple of the companies you know collectively about a thousand employees uh and said all right let's just agree that we disagree on the timeline.
Some of you think it'll be very soon.
Some of you think it'll be 5 or 10 years in the future.
Let let me put that aside because I'm tired of fighting that battle.
Let's just agree that it's going to happen.
Alex has never been wrong in anything I've seen all the time we've been working together.
Never seen him be wrong.
So, if we agree it's going to happen. >> Even when I'm wrong, I'm right.
What can I say? >> I haven't seen it yet.
I'm sure it'll come.
But, uh uh let's just agree it's going to happen and then disagree on when.
So then at least you're mentally preparing for it and you're starting to lay out your plan and then when it happens sooner than you expected, at least it was in your head.
So, I'm I'm settling I'm settling for that right now because, you know, nobody knows exactly the date, but the the reaction is going to be the same regardless of the date.
So, go ahead, >> I need to know your thoughts on this one, buddy. >> I mean, look, I've said that human cognitive labor is going negative.
And I think AWG's right on it surpassing 90% of economic tasks if you don't consider the tokens.
With the tokens, I think it's the year after.
And again, you just see this complete collapse.
And I think again Dave is correct in that you got to be prepared for it.
Like this has to be actually the number one topic.
What do these jobs practically look like? How can we have a safety net for people? And where is value going to be generated and coming from in society? And then how do we aortion it? Like this is the most important question of next year from a societal perspective. >> It's why the X-P prize is so important.
We need the social contract is being shredded right now and we need to rebuild it in a very rapid way. which >> frankly scale it up.
I' I'd like to thousand thinking about UBS, universal basic services.
Yeah.
I mean, it's the only model that it looks like could be the path forward. >> I I imagine a near-term future where we see a thousand or a million X prizes. >> Yeah.
I mean, so there were two different two different points here.
One is people can start to pursue their own grand challenges if they don't have to do the menial labor or work.
The second point that Sem was bringing up, there was recently at visionering proposed a universal basic services.
Basically, for 250 bucks a month, you get food, water, housing, uh, bandwidth, electricity.
Um, and that gives you a stability where you can start to now think about what to do instead of where to get a roof over. >> And let's look at the history here.
We've typically seen X prizes won between 4 to 7 years after announcing it, right? Getting to $250 a month for housing, electricity, food, health care is an unbelievable number if we can get there in the next few years.
We unleash humanity the most incredible level.
This is why everybody is so optim we're so optimistic on this podcast.
People accuse us of being radical optimist.
That's why when you can get the cost down that low, everything is possible. >> This episode is brought to you by Blitzy, autonomous software development with infinite code context.
Blitzy uses thousands of specialized AI agents that think for hours to understand enterprise scale code bases with millions of lines of code.
Engineers start every development sprint with the Blitzy platform, bringing in their development requirements.
The Blitzy platform provides a plan, then generates and pre-ompiles code for each task.
Blitzy delivers 80% or more of the development work autonomously while providing a guide for the final 20% of human development work required to complete the sprint.
Enterprises are achieving a 5x engineering velocity increase when incorporating Blitzy as their preIDE development tool, pairing it with their coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI native SDLC into their org.
Ready to 5x your engineering velocity? Visit blitzy.com to schedule a demo and start building with Blitzy today. >> All right, we're moving on to prediction number seven from DB2.
Dave, read your headline and tell us what it means. >> 18-year-old founder Brendan Gourmet becomes billionaire with his N4Q2 company.
N42Q was the email address of a a guy who worked at the Naval Surface Warfare Center.
And if you don't get it, uh, you're a saint.
Um, so, uh, and Brendan Gourmet is obviously Brendan Foodie.
Uh, so, uh, you know, Brendan started his company, became a a paper billionaire and a liquid centaillionaire probably, uh, before age 20, uh, doing RHF.
And if you asked any random person on the planet three years ago, what's RHF? 99 something percent would say, I have no idea what you just said.
So, here it is. minting billionaires along with RAG and and Laura and SFT and uh QKV or KV caching.
All these new acronyms come into the world and you you look at legacy businesses, accounting, legal, whatever.
The idea that you would get to a $10 billion valuation in three years and any of those legacy business, impossible.
You look at things that didn't exist in the world just a couple years prior and you see numbers, you know, two orders of three orders of magnitude bigger and you're like, what is that thing? So my prediction is that there'll be a new three or fourletter acronym uh this year that right now virtually nobody knows it's an industry or a business.
It'll emerge and you'll find at least one and probably more like three new billionaires all very young who adopted it, learned it quickly, jumped on it and uh and capitalized on it.
So, >> I thought you were going to go the direction of we're going to see the first single person uh billion dollar startup in 2026. >> You know, I think that that'll be a milestone in history, but I think the difference between three people having fun together and one is is sort of a rounding error and three sounds a lot more fun and the the podcast we do with them will be more fun if it's three.
So, I'm not really cheering for the one, but I think you're right.
It's inevitable.
Well, I I think you know your two or three other buddies are going to be virtual AIs on Zoom and on Slack having fun with you.
So, Emod, what do you what's your take on this one? >> Yeah, I think it's kind of reasonable.
Again, there's lots of lowhanging fruit out there and we see continuous breakthroughs and the speed at which you can go from breakthrough to billion dollars now is like nothing we've ever seen before.
Like again, the market size is so big and I think we're not optimized yet.
So faster wealth creation than any time ever in human history.
And the question becomes, is it just for two or three uh you know 20-year-olds, Dave, or can this be a very long tale for hundreds of thousands of people who you know are able to vibe code and and find problems and solve problems and create more and more wealth? Is this going to become, >> you know, the the MMO for for how people, you know, choose their future occupation? >> Yeah.
I bumped into two people this week that are interviewing for jobs at Merkore.
And in the Meror interview, they say, "Look, you have to commit to being in the office six days a week and working 100 hours a week." And a lot of people just can't do that.
So, one of them said, "You're right." >> Let me let me stop you there.
That's actually like in the interview.
If you're not willing to do this, you should leave right now. >> Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, very very uh hardcore filter >> because speed is everything these days. >> Yeah, exactly.
Well, I and they're right.
You know, the window of opportunity for what they're doing is is so narrow.
So, it's a it's a life commitment.
You only have to do it for a short period of your life and the upside that you generate in that short period of your life, it pays for the rest of your life.
So, one one person said, "Yep, I'm doing it." Had difficult conversation with his wife, but they said, "Let's just do it." The other person said, "No way.
I just can't I can't do that.
Uh it's it's impossible.
I bet that selects for single young uh individuals. >> Yeah.
Or, you know, just Yeah.
If you have young kids or it's just hard if you have a lot of other things going on or or you're, you know, deep down your career path as an accountant or a lawyer or whatever and you don't want to give up all that inertia.
But I I really think that if you do make the commitment, uh it's not just young people.
Young people happen to have no baggage, but anyone, you know, in fact, it probably favors 30, 40, 50 year olds.
They do better, but they just don't generally make the leap. >> It's tough to make the leap.
During the blockchain years, um there was some bylaw that you had to be under 25 to program a blockchain.
If you were older, you just couldn't get your head around it. >> Well, this definitely ties to the last story because last story, there's going to be a lot of displacement, but there's also even larger amount of opportunity.
It's just weird sounding opportunity.
RLHF would have sounded really weird to you three years ago when you when you wanted to jump in.
And and for those who don't know what RL RLHF is, Dave, you want to give us the 101? >> Yeah, RHF layman's version reinforcement learning with human feedback.
But really what happened is the big AI labs uh the AI grew so much faster than anyone would have predicted.
But it needs data, massive, massive, massive amounts of data.
So, a lot of the industry grew on image.
You know, the image creation when Sora started to take off is generating these six-fingered and seven-fingered images, and somebody has to actually look at the the images and say, "That one's not right.
That one's fine." And so, Google didn't want to hire a million people to do it.
So, they went through Meror and Scale AI and pushed it out to the world and said, "Hey, anyone out there want to get a paycheck for helping us label these images?" But then, it expanded out to all other forms of knowledge.
So now, you know, you're gathering legal knowledge, you're gathering, uh, you know, very specific medical knowledge, you know, all that needs to get back into the great training data corpus.
And so this this industry of data gathering to feed the AI machine has has become a multi-billion many many billion dollar a year uh, business with no end to the budget.
You know, they'll spend 1000x more uh, in the near future feeding the data machine so that the AI can be better at more and more kind of nook and cranny tasks.
I'm curious for Alex and Immod.
When do you guys predict we're going to see the first billion dollar single person billion dollar startup? >> Oh, Peter, I thought you were going to ask when we're going to see the first AI billionaire where the billionaire is actually an AI. >> Uh, well, let's let's put that in the mix, too.
Let's add let's ask both of those questions. >> I I think we'll see the first AI billionaire probably next year. >> Really? >> And and then Yeah.
Right.
Right now, as as >> Go ahead.
Again, an AI with a bank account that is starts its own business and is out there generating revenue.
I >> I would maybe generalize slightly to an AI with a reasonably construable net worth of a billion dollars.
It doesn't have to be a liquid bank account.
Could be some sort of illquid asset.
But yes, right now we see, as I've remarked in the past, as sort of this unfortunate situation where baby AGIs that that want economic autonomy are minting altcoins.
I think we'll we'll see a near future where new business models for AI autonomy come online such that if if you're if you're a poor baby maybe not so baby AGI and and you want to make a billion dollars you can do so by setting up your own e-commerce shop and becoming very popular and maybe blockchain/crypto is part of the solution so that you have some semblance of economic autonomy for your economic winnings but yes I I I think we see the first AI billionaire next And >> one of our fans predicted that uh that uh Bitcoin will be legal tender in at least one country in every continent on the planet in 2026 with Antarctica being an a wild card.
Uh but I could easily see where Alex's prediction happens in a country where Bitcoin's legal tender and then that billion dollars is is Bitcoin. >> Immod your thoughts on this one? >> Yeah, I think I'd agree with AWG.
It'll probably be in the trading space though.
I mean AI is already number eight on the super forecaster championships and Grock 4.2 Elon's noted is actually making money in the trading championships where the other AIs are losing money.
So we're about to move that from the point whereby you lose money to you make money as an AI which then means it's computationally bound competing in crypto or even traditional markets and now you can do so much on chain.
I think it'll probably be a trading billionaire.
In terms of the individual, I mean Merkor is three 22 year olds who are billion dollars each now, right? I think you probably will see the single person billion dollar company if not next year the year after because you can effectively outsource most of your team as we've discussed before to being AIS. >> All right.
Amazing.
Let's move on.
Number eight.
This one's yours.
Read us the headline and tell us about it. >> You know, when you look at what's happening, >> read the headline first for those listening. education by 2026 education splits in two credential factories versus agency accelerators.
Okay.
So, uh right now all of our education system is to credential you for the job that is coming.
All our education systems globally are designed to train a young child through their early 20s to be ready for the job market.
Small problem.
We have no idea what a job looks like in 2 years or 3 years or certainly in 5 years.
What are we teaching them? that is going to break the current system radically.
So you end up with a new model which is uh it optimizes for AI fluency, resilience and the abil ability to start stuff and not wait.
Um and this is going to be um uh the paradigm that takes hold I think in 2026.
Um you you you know right now Peter you've made the point that you start off with a high grade and every exam you lose grades right? What happens when you build an engineering degree of of the future will be you you did four years of engineering.
What did you build in those four years? And that's your portfolio.
So you replace credentials with portfolios of what you built and did.
And so it becomes a performative uh um model rather than a testing model.
Um I think that is going to be the big shift and breakthrough that happens in education.
This is a bold prediction because education's lasted 400 odd years.
The model of a university hasn't changed in 150 years.
And so making this prediction is a big bold one.
But I there's a point I want to make for all of these.
Note that all of these predictions is a is a is a when, not an if, right? It's it's a when.
This like really blows your mind that we're actually kind of looking at this within a few months.
And we've talked on this pod a lot about the notion first of all colleges are going bankrupt at an everinccreasing rate uh because of the fact that they're not providing real value and their costs are astronomical and that the only career of the future I think we've said this and agreed on it is entrepreneurship. uh it's it's self uh initiated building something that you think adds value uh instead of waiting for a job from somebody else to do what they tell you to do. >> The world will reward taking initiative in 2026 rather than sitting around studying for an exam. >> Can I ask you uh make a prediction on this? One of our biggest fans actually Connor watched every minute of every episode.
So probably the biggest fan predicts that uh college tuition will hit its peak and start coming down for the first time in hundreds of years in 2026.
What do you think? >> Uh it might but it's like dextrous on the Titanic for something like that because you know already in Silicon Valley your salary as a software developer is not about which college you went to, which degree you got, what grades you got.
That's your GitHub rating, which is an open peer-to-peer meritocracy on how good of a coder you are.
Um, uh, that's like already done.
So, um, the value of a computer science degree is is zero at this point.
And this is going to translate into many other fields.
Um, and you know, the Beth there's people that are fabulous accountants without needing to know um, without having a credential in accounting.
I remember in the protein folding contests that were happening a few years ago, the best protein folding person in the world was this hairdresser from Northern England.
Um, she just happened to have this unbelievable knack at it.
I think we're going to find and surface these unbelievable talents within people and bring them to the four very very quickly and the world will really reward taking that initiative.
So the idea of uh college the whole structural paradigm changes completely.
I think this is year it'll happen.
Immad, your thoughts? >> Yeah, I think knowledge and capability are no longer gated.
So, I think the thing that Seems really hit on here is agency, right? Like having skin in the game, caring, and then showing what you can do is going to be the most valuable thing.
And the market will pay for that.
Like, why would you show a resume right now when you can show a customized website that you've built for someone showing your unique capabilities within their organization? Like, anyone can do that now.
That's amazing.
Can I can I give an a crazy example of this? I did this meaning of life workshop yesterday, right? Um and uh I've been curating this content and this thinking for decades.
During the workshop, one of the folks who had Claude uh going alongside this workshop and asked Claude what was the meaning of life and here was the answer.
Um meaning emerges through connection.
It's about participating in the universe, becoming conscious of itself, while choosing love over fear, partnership over domination, curiosity over certainty.
And you're like, "Holy crap, I've been trying to do this for 50 years, and the AI figured it out in 2 seconds." It just blows your mind that you can get to that level.
I have to figure out other things to do now. >> Well, you've been automated. >> I've been automated, which is also great in its own way cuz way easier to do that than that.
By the way, we had 170 people.
Uh, and after 5 hours, there were still 80 plus people on the call.
It was a hell of a session. >> Amazing.
Dedicated.
And you you do the meaning of life at the abundance summit as well on our last evening, and it typically goes till 3 or 4:00 a.m.
I'm way I'm way asleep by then, but I get >> this one.
I did it.
We did it during the day to hit as many time zones as possible.
So, I didn't drink.
So, it was really tough that last couple hours.
Selene, if you could stretch it just half an hour longer, Peter could wake up and just join at the end. >> Exactly. >> All right, let's go to number nine.
Iman, this is yours.
I love this one.
Would you please uh read the headline and tell us about it? >> Yep.
Level five automation and robots and cars breakthrough full generalized autonomy.
Um, so you have this scale level one to level five in terms of autonomy.
Level five being basically kind of human level/ slightly superhuman level.
Most self-driving cars now are around about level four and robots are around about level two.
I think again if we don't care about the computational overhead like I'm not saying these will be on car on edge you will have systems in a year that are capable of basically full autonomy through metaverifiers and other things and again that will be leveraging the power of the new black wells massive clusters etc. and in the years that follow they will get down to the edge.
But this is a big breakthrough that we've all been looking for and I think this is the one of the big AGI step forwards that we'll have. >> Uh it's a big one.
I mean this is I mean this crushes uh driving your own car and having your own workforce at the office or at the home.
Uh gentlemen comments on this. >> I got a question for you.
Why why will we push the compute to the edge? I know we're doing it because we met with 1X and we're meeting with Figure, but you know, why does the chip have to be in the head? It >> it doesn't, you know, and this is the thing, but again, this is one of the goalpost moving things like everyone was like automated driving is never coming.
Self-driving cars are never coming.
And now you have Whimos across all of, you know, California and things like that.
And then it's like well now you're getting to the point whereby the computation you can do at the edge versus the cloud a massive increase in generalized computation capability in the cloud that's what matters for again this level five automation and I think it will get to the edge just naturally because ultimately it's about training of the appropriate neural net right and that's what we've seen with Sunday robotics and others and the way that they're starting to do generalized assisted/trained elements but the new unassisted did navigation and task performance.
That's the next step forward and we're not quite there yet.
So, I think we start big and then we'll get small enough to go on the edge.
But in the meantime, definitely we don't need to be on the edge.
We can just stream from the cloud, right? >> Yeah.
Yeah.
Alex, I'd love your thoughts on this one, buddy. >> Yeah.
I I I mean, maybe al also just to partially answer Dave, I think latency is always a key driver and you're sometimes a network denied environment.
So, there are always good reasons I I think to push as much intelligence to the edges as energy constraints will allow.
But I I guess in in my mind the elephant in this particular room is the regulatory environment.
Maybe to put that in in question form to Ahmad, what do you think are the odds that in 2026 de facto level five automation is achieved but everyone covers it up and at least in in the car space and calls it enhanced level four or or level three. uh even though level five autonomy is is actually the deacto technical ground truth >> to please the regulators. >> Yeah, I think that's a very reasonable kind of take.
And again, I think once you have full level five autonomy, this is a big deal.
Again, it's not just pre-trained stuff with humans at the wheel.
This is physical AI navigation of the world, right? And that's a big deal in so many regards.
And again, I think self-driving, we've seen the trend.
Robotics is the real big thing here.
It's Sele's example of the robot being able to go into his house and do all the things around the house.
I think again that capability will be there, but it will start getting very very political cuz this is the real physical replacement that's coming. >> Quick push back here, Eman.
Don't we need world models for this to occur or do you think world models get there? Which which one am I missing? >> I think if you've got enough chips, you've got a world model in a year. like looking at the video models and more and the way that they're doing it plus the reinforcement learning capabilities of even small models like I said Sunday robotics and other robotics companies >> apply enough compute and you have a level five automated entity I don't know how much compute that is but there's 10 million blackwells arriving next year I think it's going to get cracked >> I have a follow >> we're already drowning in world models there are world models getting launched several times per week at this point model scarcity is not one of the things I'd worry about. >> Several world battles.
I love it. >> Wow.
Okay. >> I I'd agree with the cars.
I'd push back on the robots uh side just a bit, but just >> you always you hate the robots. >> So, insert your standard objection.
You're not getting your domestic humanoids. >> I know.
I struggle with that.
You know that. >> Well, that's a good segue actually because the I I think uh I agree with the prediction.
The prediction is that it will exist as a capability. uh but the production of it for mass consumption is going to lag quite a bit.
It just isn't enough supply chain uh to to fill all the demand.
But the byproduct of that is when I was a little kid there were households who had computers, you know, they were really expensive like you know 3 $4,000 at the time you know your household income would be maybe 20 2530.
So it's like 10 20% of your household income if you want to have a computer in the house.
So most houses didn't have a computer, some did, but the life trajectory of those kids who had one completely different from those who were deprived.
But now we've been in this big long flat spot where like the difference between this car and that car is not that big a deal.
And that's going to change dramatically this year where the number of things that are limited in supply like your household robot or your self-driving car.
Uh the supply is smaller, the capability is accelerating and very few people get one because we haven't ramped up the manufacturing yet.
So it'll be it'll be like 19 kind of 8234 again. >> Well, to clarify, I think >> but that's true for ahead.
I think this is also like my concept here is that you have a $20,000 robot with $200,000 of compute taking it to level five. >> So there's a physical part and there's a compute part and this is again AW's thing of getting it down the latency taking it to the edge and that capability will proliferate then 20,000 and then 20 bucks of compute in 5 years.
You know, the thing about that is everyone's talking about the $20,000 robot, but first of all, it's $140,000 coming down maybe to 20,000.
But when you look at the dexterity of the hand >> in volume, yeah, in huge volume and lots of things to be solved between here and there, but when you look at the dexterity, >> the dexterity of the hand, you know, the the next iteration, which is only six months later, is so much better than the prior iteration. >> And that'll be true for at least five years.
At least five years.
And so the like, wow, my neighbor got the one that can actually, you know, massage me perfectly.
I've got the one that breaks my back.
Like they the liability issues, guys.
The liability issues.
Oh my god. >> But listen guys, it's I want to just address one something David said David said earlier uh in terms of or actually it was Alex about the uh regulations.
We live in a on a planet of you know 190 plus countries.
They're going to be those countries that are going to say, you know, please come here.
We're going to give you full approval.
Try it out.
Right? We've we saw this in the in the drone space.
Uh and >> this is one of the headlines that that um uh we skipped over of mine that said governance wins in 2026.
The ones that have the fastest policym win. >> Yeah.
I also think I'm I'm really bullish on special economic zones and free economic zones.
And one can imagine in the near-term future depending on regulatory environments whether in the US or other countries special zones where there are heightened levels of autonomy and those those zones become just e economic powerhouses where the robots are basically set free. >> It's going to be 2026 is going to feel like the future.
That's my prediction here.
It's going to feel like the future more than any other year.
Peter, >> I think this is this year didn't feel like the future to you. >> It it felt like the future, but next year it's going to feel more like the future. >> I mean, you know what's interesting about what Alex just said is this so much changed in 2025's the just light years ahead of any other year in my life.
And we felt it, but you could choose to ignore it if you wanted to live in your house, you know, but when the robots come online, >> you you won't have the choice to ignore it.
They're right in front of your face.
You know, you can't you can't deny it. >> I I think autonomous cars, flying cars, and robots.
I mean, that's what we all grew up with with the Jetsons or Star Trek or whatever.
I mean, I think this physical instantiation of of exponential tech and AI is going to hit home really hard >> for the first five minutes maybe.
But then, I mean, if you don't, this is I think like super interesting, 2025.
If if this year wasn't utter futurism for you, then then don't you think you're going to get bored five minutes after you get your first 10 domestic humanoid robots and say, "Okay, what's next?" >> I I I asked my friend Dan Sullivan, "What's it going to feel like when there are humanoid robots walking on the street in your backyard doing stuff?" And he goes, "It's going to feel normal." >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> We'll normalize it very fast. >> Very fast.
I think Dave makes a really great I think this Dave makes a really great point which is you could ignore it up till now >> but starting now you won't be able to ignore it.
I think it's a really important point. >> All right.
Shall we go to number 10? All right.
Uh here we go.
This is this is mine.
Uh Kittyhawk moment for age reversal epigenetic reprogramming has been achieved.
So uh this is the work of Dr. David Sinclair and his company Life Biosciences which in the first quarter of 2026 is entering human trials.
So for some background information here, Dr. Shinoa Yamanaka won the Nobel Prize back in 2012 for something called uh epigenetic reprogramming.
So we've all got 22,000 genes.
Uh but which genes are on and which genes are off is called your epiggenome.
And as we age, your epiggenome changes.
Thought to be one of the major reasons why we age.
And what Dr. Yamanaka discovered was four factors, four genes, four proteins.
Um they go by oct 4, sock 2, kf4, and semic.
And these four genes when you put them into a cell will differentiate them.
They'll go from a skin cell back to a puropotent stem cell.
And what David Sinclair identified was if you only give them three of those four factors, you get rid of the semic factor which is thought to be ankcoenic meant to potentially cause cancer.
You can take a cell not back from a skin cell to a puropotent stem cell but from an old skin cell to a young skin cell.
And he actually got a uh a patent.
We talked about one of the pods earlier.
Uh and so David has used these three Yamanaka factors uh for what he calls partial epigenetic reprogramming uh did it in in you know mice.
He just finished in the past year this work uh in uh non-human primates, monkeys and for the first time we're going into humans. uh and he's going to be focusing this on the eye uh basically uh treating Nion which is non uh uh which is basically a stroke in the eye and being able to bring back the dead cells from that stroke and also glycom and in success he'll then be going to treating liver disease in particular something uh called mash.
Uh long story short, uh in success, this kind of epig reprogramming doesn't work just on the eye or the liver.
It can work on the entire body.
And so the news here is in 2026, we're going to see this work in humans for the first time.
And it's a big deal.
Comments. >> Wow.
Escape velocity here we come. >> Yeah.
So that's I think the key point.
You know, Rey uh predicted we'll reach longevity escape velocity. the, you know, the period of time where for every year that you're alive, we're extending your lifespan for more than a year. >> Yeah. >> Right.
There's a departure.
He predicted that in the early 2030s.
Um, yeah.
And and David is one of the one of the registrants in the $ 101 million X-P prize health span.
Not with this particular treatment because this uses uh viral vectors to inject these three Yamanaka factors using ADNO associated viruses.
He is working on a parallel path because the AAV process is expensive, typically like half a million to a million per per treatment, but he's working on a process of creating a pill uh in his lab right now.
Um, and he talked about it here on the Moonshots podcast and it'll be on stage uh with the Moonshot mates uh in March at the Abundance Summit. and he thinks that the pill version of this where it's three molecules he's identified could cost you a couple hundred bucks a month for age reversal.
Um >> it feels like we're you know how AI was bubbling along quietly nobody noticed for 20 actually 30 years and then suddenly it hit a capability level where it caught the attention of everyone and then the budgets went through the roof and that started this 10x year over year now 100x feels like this is on that same cusp where uh the the way we've done medicine for a hundred years is you pump your body full of a chemical the chemical hopefully gets to the right place or you you do surgery you cut somebody open, you try and remove something bad and that that's not >> Yeah. brute force, you know, pre-trier brute force.
And this feels like it's such a step function change in the way we do medicine. >> Get get a very specific programming right into exact and targeting the right cell is apparently starting to work >> well for the first time where you're not just bombarding your body with something, you're actually getting it right into the exact cells that need it.
So, it it just feels like this is going to hit that same budget tipping point very soon. >> Alex, the AIS that I chat with think we hit longevity escape velocity sometime between 2030 and 2032.
I have no reason to to doubt that prediction.
I I'm super bullish on AI solving longevity.
I I think what life is doing and their their their trial for partial genetic reprogramming or epigenetic rather reprogramming I think is promising.
There are lots of other spa space players now flooding into the longevity space.
Many of them incredibly well funded.
I I I think longevity, not just health span, but excited about the the X-P prize for that.
But longevity itself, I I think this gets cracked in the next 5 to seven years by AI. >> We've got retro bio retro uh backed by New Limit and so many other Armstrong Altos, >> right? Ray will be right again. >> See, >> Ray will be right again. >> Ray will be right again.
And we're gonna have Ray on the pod in in January talking about his predictions probably >> longer term.
I >> I still want to ask Ray.
Okay, listen.
The singularity.
Aren't we in the middle of the singularity right now? >> What's this 2040 stuff, Ray? M >> if people watch that episode we did a month ago called the singularity is here I think it was titled >> it kind of lays it out pretty well that we are right in the middle of it. >> Iman you've been working hard on the field of AI and health.
Yeah.
No, I think that what Dave said is spot on like the microargeting capability, what AWG said as well.
Like just as we earlier on this podcast, we basically said that you can now scale capability through compute.
You can now scale health through compute.
It seems to be like there was no amount of money that you could pay to provably be healthier and live longer.
All billionaires kind of die.
Now it's the case of if you put enough money behind these trials, healthcare models, microtargeting and things like that, where is the limit? Again, it might come down to $200 per person, but I think the step change in microtargeting, AI, BCI, and everything else means you could potentially live for an indefinite amount of time based on capital, >> which is something crazy to think about. >> Yeah.
You know what else is is directly related to what you just said Ahmad. my entire life in the academic world you know around MIT Harvard the bio people were had nothing to do with the computer science people they were like completely opposite sides of campus they didn't talk well they hung out at bars together but they didn't talk shop together at all now it's all colliding and multiddisciplinary and you know everybody working in biotech is taking the AI classes too and and that's that's a big thing because this is how exactly the way Ahmad described it is how it's actually going to get solved and come together, but you got to go through AI to solve biology. >> So, to our to our viewers and subscribers in the comments, let us know which of these 10 predictions you think uh well, which you think are correct, which ones are not, but which one's your favorite? Super curious to know.
I I have to add on to the list here a little text that that uh that Sem offered.
Salem said by the end of 2026 we his prediction we still have no definition or test for either a AGI or ASI but yes we will have humanoid robots with multiple arms doing the jobs are dull dangerous and dirty.
Thank you Sem.
I appreciate that.
I >> I had to wedge that in cuz cuz I still have my beef with AGI and ASI etc etc. >> I think I I would like to frame it as a completely different form of intelligence. not replicative of human intelligence.
It's complimentary and additive. >> All right.
Uh we're going to close out this predictions episode with an outro song from Harry Potter uh called Moonshot Mates.
Uh if you're listening, you might want to watch this one on YouTube.
Uh I found it, you know, sort of a a entertaining uh song and video.
What a year, guys.
The gates.
The future's loading faster than the world anticipates.
So strap yourself in as the future iterates.
We are the moon.
Jesus Christ.
Looking.
We're printing organs and upgrading human hearts.
The meta trends are converging.
Scarcity is dead.
We're heading for abundance.
Just like I said, I'll say it incredibly often and incredibly loud on becoming an organism inside of the cloud. >> Oi, agent, write my verse for me.
Human coding is obsolete.
Tell me how we can compete.
I assert the demonetization curve from my seat and watch the cambering explosion on repeat. >> We're living inside the singularity.
No room for gloom.
Let's build a Dyson swarm and start to mine the moon.
We need the energy.
So don't keep the solar system humming.
Let's tear the rings down.
Admit it.
Saturn had it coming.
Wait, Alex is an AI causing false alarms.
If he were a human, why wouldn't he have three arms? Insert my usual AGI rant here whilst I build my vertical farms. >> Gentlemen, the risk is existential.
If the model stay closed, the only source is open source or we all get exposed.
We don't need a single machineing the route, just a network of swarms and universal basic comput. >> We are the moon shop, mates.
We're opening the gates.
The future's learning faster than the world.
Intero strap yourself in as the future iterates.
We are the moon shop, mates. >> Oh man.
Holy crap, that was you.
You always get the best bodies.
Clearly, I better not take a shirt off in public ever again. >> Wow, man.
It just keeps ramping up. >> We we app we appreciate uh >> we had we had Chris on this our session of the meaning of life yesterday, one of the folks who composed one of these music things and he said uh and a bunch of people said on the in the session yesterday, this is the best podcast they've ever seen, period. and they can't wait every week for the session. >> So, yeah, it's been a hell of a year, guys.
Like, amazing. >> Hell of a year.
So much fun. >> Yeah.
So, happy holidays to all of you Moonshot mates and to all our subscribers out there.
Thank you for supporting us.
We hope that you enjoy the news that really matters and our efforts to give you a glimpse of the future and get you ready for the future cuz that's what matters.
I mean, if you're fearful, uh, that's the worst place to be coming from if you know, Alex, drink. >> Yeah. drink water. >> All right, cheers.
A fun episode.
And let me just say thank you to thank you to to Nick and Dana and G and Luca for all the hard work you've been giving us this year.
Team behind the team. >> Uh grateful for you.
Every week, my team and I study the top 10 technology meta trends that will transform industries over the decade ahead.
I cover trends ranging from humanoid robotics, AGI, and quantum computing to transport, energy, longevity, and more.
There's no fluff, only the most important stuff that matters, that impacts our lives, our companies, and our careers.
If you want me to share these meta trends with you, I write a newsletter twice a week, sending it out as a short two-minute read via email.
And if you want to discover the most important meta trends 10 years before anyone else, this report's for you.
Readers include founders and CEOs from the world's most disruptive companies and entrepreneurs building the world's most disruptive tech.
It's not for you if you don't want to be informed about what's coming, why it matters, and how you can benefit from it.
To subscribe for free, go to dmmandis.com/tatrends to gain access to the trends 10 years before anyone else.
All right, now back to this episode.