It was like a very simple premise when we started.
It was like tech markets are bigger than ever.
Companies are staying private longer than ever.
Uh and as a result of that uh you know the opportunity set for us is huge.
Uh I was looking at it last night and I think I mean it kind of oscillates a little bit but I think six of the most valuable I think the six most valuable companies are US-based tech companies.
It's definitely five and then sometimes you know it bounces around on number six.
Um, and then, you know, it bounced around a little bit, but seven or eight of the top 10 are US-based technology companies.
So, um, you know, technology has kind of swallowed the whole market.
Um, you know, and I think increasingly we'll take market cap, uh, over time.
Um, we've got some slides showing this whole trend and, you know, I guess data bricks was an appropriate way to kick off.
Um, you know, talking about the trend of companies staying private longer than ever.
That's obviously a double-edged sword, you know, for us. um it gives us an opportunity to invest in companies more while they're in the private markets, but we also are very mindful uh about you know generating returns and and DPI.
And then you know the big thing that's changed from when we started the growth fund is just is AI.
Um you know we've got some slides on it.
It's massively expanding the market.
The AI companies are getting bigger uh faster than anything we've ever seen.
The investment amounts are are bigger than anything we've ever seen.
Uh and so it's just it it it looks to be you know a huge tailwind for us over the next 10 or so years um you know as we as we look to make new investments.
So let's jump in to the details.
So AI I mentioned this already.
You can go to the uh next slide.
The groundwork is being laid um in a way that's very different than previous cycles.
Um, and the the groundwork that's being laid is bigger than anything we've ever seen before.
So, I I'm all over the team.
I'm like, this is too conservative.
These numbers are going to end up way bigger.
Uh, because I think just the big tech companies in their latest quarter, if you run rate their capex from the latest quarter, um, I think it's like $400 billion of annual capex and most of that is going into AI, you know, AI infrastructure and data centers.
And so um you know what that means is the infrastructure is going to get built for uh all of the training and inference needs that the market is going to need.
And and this is great for all the companies that are building on top of this.
Uh the best part about this is it's mostly the large tech companies that are bearing the burden of the buildout.
Um and so you you've probably all seen the charts of like capex spend as a percentage of their overall sales.
It turns out they're the best companies, you know, probably ever created.
Um, you know, companies like Google, Facebook, um, you know, Amazon and Microsoft, and they can bear, um, you know, potential capacity overbuild and and things like that.
And so if you just put it in a conservative view, which again, I think the number is going to end up way bigger than this.
So, um, so the buildout's massive and this bodess very very well uh, for uh, for our for our portfolio companies that are building on top of it.
Next slide.
Um, at the same time this is happening, the input cost and input quality is getting remarkably better like faster than Moore's law.
So on the left hand side, you don't need to look at the details of this.
Just trust me when I tell you the cost of the inputs um, you know, of accessing these models has declined 99% or a little more than 99% over the last two years.
So you know sort of 100x declines greater than Moore's law decrease.
At the same time the models have been improving in sort of frontier capabilities by a double factor every 7 months.
So massive decline in the input cost um at the same time that the quality is going way up and this bodess really well for building new stuff and new capabilities uh on top of AI.
Uh, you know, I think our house view now is that AI is going to end up like, you know, electricity or Wi-Fi. Like if you're if you're if you're getting if you're accessing, you know, electricity at somebody's house, you're not like, "Hey, let me chip in, you know, a few pennies for, you know, sitting in, you know, a room with light uh in your house." And I think it'll end up being the same thing in the fullness of time with with uh with uh with AI.
Um, next slide. the market opportunity for AI is so much greater than um than the software market and I think that's really exciting.
Um, if you look at the previous cycle that we went through of mobile phones plus cloud computing, the big story behind that was basically creating 10 trillion or so of new market value uh across software companies, internet companies, mega cap tech companies and I think AI is going to be much larger because I think the impact on the economy is going to be much larger.
Um and so you know if you look at the simple math that we have on the page uh US software spend is like 1% of GDP.
US white collar payroll is like 20% of GDP.
And so um you know there's a lot of areas where I think we'll see you know augmentation or or potential you know cost savings or efficiencies or or replacements um you know using technology.
There's always a question when these things happen of how much uh the new companies are able to capture versus the end customers.
My rule of thumb is like 90% of the value goes to the end customers.
Um and you know 10% of the value goes to the companies serving them and and it turns out that that's just a massive amount of market cap, you know, if you're the 10% that you're capturing.
You know, the examples I always give are like, you know, what what does your iPhone cost? Like, I don't know, the latest like give or take a thousand bucks.
Like, if you know, gun to your head, what would you pay for an iPhone? Like, you know, if you're if you're on the higher end income spectrum, like probably far greater than $1,000.
Um, and you know, the difference between that and the $1,000 you pay is is the surplus.
And it turns out Apple's still a really great business.
Um or you know if you take the Google properties like you know search and and Gmail and now I guess increasingly AI stuff they monetize you per year.
First of all you get it for free which is massive surplus but they're only monetizing you per year probably like 200 bucks or something like that.
Um and there's a tremendous amount more value delivered um you know I would argue than that per user.
So I think the big story is going to be massive new surplus created.
A ton of it gets captured by you know end customers, end users, whether it's businesses or consumers and a massive amount of new market cap goes to companies um that are uh that are capturing that opportunity.
If you uh >> there was a great meme the other day that someone said, you know, imagine if Google had known that users were willing to pay, you know, hundred 200 bucks like they are with chat GPT.
If they had known that people would pay for that with a similarly magically delightful product like Google, like God only knows what the market cap what of Google would be today.
Obviously, maybe even more of a dominant, you know, market share contributor than than it already is.
But it is um it is amazing when you think about sort of the reconfiguration of how we will view monetization in this new world.
And before we go even further, David, I think these last couple slides actually set up probably 95% of a lot of the questions around the market because if you go back to slide uh seven, Mon'nique, like I think that slide is daunting for a lot of folks in part because obviously you see it bundled with with the headlines, but also because it just feels like we've all many of us had lived through the early 2000s where it just ended in a very uh less le than desirable picture.
So maybe if we can you know summarize what what's your case for why it's different and then particularly talk about the timing cycles because incidentally enough you know despite the massive broadband buildout and then the glut we actually of course get the beneficiary of that today but >> well we grew into it.
I mean we ended up growing into it.
It was just a time lag in that case and it was not the strongest companies in the world building that out.
And you know the thing to watch will be like what role does leverage play and so you know I read an article uh this weekend that was like is there systemic risk in data center buildout and first of all most of the you know people with their neck on the line again but you know there's a role that like as of right now private capital is playing there's a role and and you know the the biggest funer of private capital is actually banks um or private debt um so um you know banks are the ones that are funding the private debt companies and increasingly they all have insurance companies.
So maybe there's insurance companies that are kind of backdoor, you know, funding this buildout.
You know, that's a really good sign for the stability of the buildout.
Um so, you know, that's like the nature of the supply side, which again, it feels different this time given, you know, who's who's actually doing the buildout um and and and who the tenants are.
Um the the demand side is the bigger, more interesting thing.
Uh, so I read a stat yesterday um that the time to get to 365 billion searches on chat GPT was 2 years.
The time for Google to get to 365 billion searches was 11 years.
So it's five and a half times longer.
So the big story on the demand side for me this time around is AI is built on the back of the internet and cloud computing.
And because of that it sort of allows for immediate global distribution.
Like if you look at the way you know Google and Facebook started for example like it started you know much much they started much more you know like small build both had like a network effect dynamic which just takes longer um and you know we didn't have full sort of internet proliferation across five you know five and a half billion people in the world and you know smartphones in the hands of everybody able to access the internet and so what that means is because of the nature of this technology you don't have to deliver a new hardware product and because we have global you know internet buildout and because we have cloud computing the whole world can access this and so if you just take chat GPT again they got to the scale that they're at five and a half times faster than Google which is staggering um but you know there's probably I don't know a billion you know I think the latest they said there's more than a billion monthly active users there's probably another billion or so people who have tried it so if you add up all the different plat platforms and a bunch of people have probably tried, you know, Google products and Facebook products.
It's probably well over half of the global internet population has used AI tools already.
Um, and you know, we know that there's probably in some shape or form somewhere between one and a half and two billion user active users of these products.
So just the speed at which they got to distribution is unlike anything we've seen before.
And so that that is heartening to me that the supply buildout will be utilized um maybe in a more predictable way uh than you know broadband uh in the early internet buildout days uh just because it you know it's it's it's built on the back of the previous infrastructure stuff.
Um you know the I I also want to comment on the Google thing you said which is like imagine if they you know could get 200 bucks or something from users.
The beauty of as consumers, the beauty of like Google, Facebook, Apple for us is there's not like a clean way to price discriminate for those companies like like if if if you know like they they don't know that I'm willing to pay more and they can't charge me more than you know the other user uh of an iPhone.
Um but in the case of AI because of the way the business model is structured and we've already seen some proof points of this I think there will be greater success.
So just today um or I guess yesterday uh technically uh OpenAI released their India subscription product and I think it's something like three or four bucks a month.
That makes total sense.
In the US there are high-end subscription products that are 200 to 300 bucks a month that are like flying off the shelves like consumers can't buy enough of.
Um, and so to me, the real story of the growth in this market is there's going to be an evolution of the business model that allows these companies to address the user base and actually price discriminate, I think, in an effective way.
So they can do a combination of subscriptions, you know, for higherend users, um, and sort of get to the point, you know, where they're they're willing to pay more, um, and then also, you know, probably end up with premium products where they monetize through some form of advertising.
It's it's hard to speculate now on what that would look like.
I think it's probably some form of like an affiliate type thing.
Um, that has like a dirty connotation cuz that's kind of a backwater industry in today's internet, but I think it will end up looking like that.
Um, and I think um I think the way you see like one way to see it in the product is if you haven't done this already um go into like one of the deep research products and uh sorry this is Katherine Bole calling me about a deal I think and I don't know how to turn this call onto silent.
Um, so one way to try this out in the product is like go into um one of the deep research products either, you know, whatever OpenAI or or Grock or or whatever it may be um and have it do like a really sophisticated shopping research project for you and it comes out with incredible stuff.
Like I had it um I had to do this for my son's literally baseball bat because it required a bunch of different specifications and things and I wanted to look at year-over-year like you know what what's the what's the better value and all these things.
Um and it came back with like extraordinary answers and this is a far superior you know experience than research like typing into Google and then clicking around and you know having seven sponsored links above you know seeing anything organic.
So I think there's going to be an opportunity for them to monetize free users.
And so the big story, you know, in the case of OpenAI is like there's, you know, whatever probably 30 to 40 million paying users today.
The other platforms are kind of a rounding error relative to that.
So maybe add another 10.
Um so there's like 40 million people paying for this stuff today um at some level and you know there's probably two billion using it.
So like I the you know and and again Facebook Facebook and Google monetize their properties at like you know for US users call it between 150 and 200 bucks a year per user.
So there's just a massive amount of opportunity uh to monetize and on the consumer side there's probably going to continue to be tremendous surplus.
I find tremendous surplus in it today.
Um but you know active daily active users of chat GBT already today spend like 30 minutes at 20 28 29 minutes a day on the product and you know to put that into context I think Instagram's like 50 minutes a day and you know Tik Tok like sadly is like 70 minutes a day but like this is like real time spent um and and and real sort of consumer value already.
So I I just think I know the question was about like risk on the supply side and the infrastructure buildout, but the usage the actual usage and distribution that we've seen this time around makes me think that it's kind of different.
Like we we have a really good um view of demand signals that is far that that took many many years to get um you know in the case of you know the internet uh or even in the case of mobile phones just because you know you had to manufacture phones and convince people to buy them.
Uh so you know in that way it's built on the back of the previous technology cycles and it and that's great but it also in my mind derisks um the sort of forward growth potential of the of the AI uh companies that we're investors in >> totally pulling up the website of chatt and and doing it being able to do it accessibly and almost like the party trick of like hey let me show you the cool thing that I just did like that userability obviously is very different than we than the prior cycle where we literally had to wait for the infrastructure to be built. that and the device and hardware to catch up as well.
Our our early stage team also did um a great post on this topic if you're curious about the future of commerce, what that looks like with AI and even the recent if you uh uh have any folks on on this call who spent time on the public side.
You know, one of the things uh that has been significantly observable is uh the number of public companies who've reported a decline in um referral traffic and engagement. um largely because you know with Google search now they're just doing the summary the AI summary version of the result flow and we could talk about the implications for what that means in terms of the downstream effects as a part of that but that is um certainly something top of mind we're hearing a lot about from uh folks in the Fortune 500 just given you know obviously this reorient business of how do they engage with the consumer when you could actually do a really detailed search as David described with with his son's baseball bat without ever actually having to go on any website at all. >> I told my son, I'm like, "You have no idea how much research I did, man.
I I I scoured the end of the internet for you, buddy." Uh, and it turns out >> all dads in their desire to to have endless amounts of research on on uh, you know, kind of arbitrary things to say the least.
Uh, >> here I'll I'll send that uh there there was a good little uh snippet on X about some of that Google search traffic stuff.
It was like IA ruse. >> Yeah. >> Oh, yeah.
The earnings call that that Martin dropped the other day.
Yeah.
Just so folks could see like again it's the folks you usually would expect, right? Like it's folks like Groupon for example.
Um IA uh who who are seeing the impact in in real time.
Um there's one question from Chris we should take while we're just on this slide here.
Um and I'm going to throw in another one that's related to it around the the shifts in bottlenecks, right? You know, right now there's obviously this massive bottleneck as it relates to compute, but Chris's question was, is there enough energy to actually power this buildout as well and and you know, we should lay into there what we think the next bottleneck actually is beyond energy as well. >> Um, I mean, yeah, like as of right now through our current means of energy production, yeah, I mean, energy is a bottleneck and so, you know, we've made investments on the nuclear side.
I'm quite optimistic that you know we now have um you know like an embrace I would say of um you know nuclear power.
I think three mile island's going to get powered back up.
The big tech companies are building data centers near you know nuclear power plants. you know, we have figured out there there's a lot of natural gas in you know, places like uh West Texas that um you know, can be you can you can you can build training large training clusters like very near to them um and and pretty efficiently uh power those data centers.
Um but yeah, we're going to find we're going to need, you know, different uh different sources, I think, is the short answer.
And, you know, we're probably most optimistic about nuclear >> for sure.
And then and then the ability to just build these things.
I mean they're like >> massive scale operations.
And so um you know like one of the most remarkable things and we're we're large investors in XAI and and one of the most remarkable things about what XAI did is they stood up the biggest data center at the time in you know like a quarter of the time that anyone else had done the same thing.
And they had to do crazy unnatural things like, you know, get um, you know, every backup generator in the, you know, multi-state region, uh, bought out and and, you know, buy buy labor off of different projects.
But, uh, but they did it.
And so, just, you know, the actual construction and build, um, you know, is massive.
My my view on like chips and infrastructure is production capacity of those will typically scale to meet demand.
There's there's always a dislocation and, you know, you've seen it.
Um and so you know I think energy ultimately in the next call it 5 years will probably be the bottleneck and that's why we're so excited about nuclear and making investments in that area. >> Absolutely.
Yeah.
And and just to extrapolate out you know once we figure out that piece which inevitably you know with any technology you always do uh if then the bottleneck just shifts to another.
The big component that I I think most folks have not yet uh realized or zone in on is is the cooling piece.
Uh and so you'll see a whole wave of innovation around that part as well once you figure out how to generate all this energy, how to actually cool all this stuff down without boiling our oceans and and uh making the world melt down.
Um so >> and making the chips meltdown >> and making the chips meltdown.
Yes, that's right.
There's one question here, David, if I can interject uh because you are the business model snob.
So this is a perfect question for you, which is there's a lot of debate on whether the gross margins of a lot of AI companies should be more scrutinized, i.e. particularly, you know, kind of um there's a lot of of uh turmoil around, for example, the relationship between cursor and anthropic and whether you know the growth for a lot of companies might be actually masked by um a reliance on some of these models and also what is um the the actual unit economics that is considered best-in-class. maybe help us distill how you and the team think about that and particularly, you know, what is this uh uh topic around gross margins where you're willing to make, you know, some um shortterm exceptions for it versus long-term, you know, hopefully benefit and output on the other side. >> Yeah, I I love this topic.
Um and I I I would just say that like the reason that this industry and this job is so fun right now is because the range of outcomes is so much greater than before.
Like the variance is so high, you know.
I was talking to the team at the offsite yesterday and I was like, do you remember in 2000? Some of them weren't in the industry, but you know, the ones that were in the industry like >> but I weren't born yet too. >> I know there some of them weren't born yet.
Yeah.
So some young folks who are uh very AI native and very smart.
Um but um you know like late cycle there's questions that you are trying to answer that are interesting but they're far less interesting.
So you're like oh how just how big can data dog get or just how big can you know whatever pick your pick your SAS app like how big can it get and um now we have all these questions around business quality um market power who the winners are going to be even if you are a winner is there going to be value that occurs to you and where you are in the stack um and so just the range of outcomes is is so much higher and I think if we do a good job in that period of time what that means is uh you know hopefully we can get you greater degree of variance in in in our own outcome uh you know as investors and so I'm very excited about that um so so yeah so what what are we thinking about in business model so one uh sort of value proposition to the customers is the number one thing that we care about like is their customer love of your product and is that love enduring so um you know if you if you made me pick two topline stats to look at uh to assess the business model Um it would be um gross retention rate.
So gross because you know I like looking at we have we obviously get to look at net retention rates too but for gross retention rates it's sort of like are people getting value out of your product? And what gross retention is is basically if you have 100 customers um you know in absolute terms you know dollar weighted how many of them are sticking around? And so we look for things where like 90% plus customers are sticking around.
Um and hopefully they're expanding their usage.
And so that would be expressed in in net retention.
Um but just sort of core value proposition is is is shown in gross retention.
Um and then ease of customer acquisition.
And so the way you see that is like organic customer demand, you know, high value of dollars that they're willing to pay relative to how much it costs to acquire them either via marketing or sales.
And so if you have things that are sort of like being pulled off the shelves and you have uh high endurance of the customer relationship, that's typically like the best things that you can get um for you know business model quality on the top line.
Um you mentioned gross margins.
So we care a lot about gross margins and there's a bunch of debate right now around some of the AI native application companies and their gross margins.
Um I think our hypothesis and hope in the market is if there are multiple model providers that are somewhat close to par you're going to see input costs go down significantly over time.
If you recall, you know, 100x decline in the input cost over the course of two years, the hope would be that that continues.
And I all all indications suggest on our side that that will continue and maybe it abates a little bit, but it will continue pretty significantly down uh over time as long as there's competition at the model layer.
Um and so, you know, coding is one of the areas that people have spent a lot of time scrutinizing in this area and and and sort of assessing the business, you know, business models and business quality.
Um, I I'd say relative to like mature SAS apps, we probably are a little bit more lenient on assessing a company's gross margin today because we strongly believe that their input costs are going to go down over time and because of the model improvements, they'll be able to uh harness better models and deliver better products to consumers over time.
So they won't need to increase price, but they'll deliver a lot more value and stickiness um while their input costs go down.
That's the hypothesis.
Um I think that's subject to there being multiple players in the market that serve, you know, models.
Now, we're thrilled that GPT5 is out and it's a very credible alternative and it will put pricing pressure uh on anthropic.
Google is also very focused with their Gemini models on coding and we've seen a bunch of really good improvements and promising progress out of them.
So as long as there's multiple players in the market, I think you'll continue to see costs go down and again in light of that relative to you know sort of mature industry type SAS stuff or infrastructure stuff, we're a little bit more lenient um you know on assessing a company's gross margins today. we we we don't want to go invest in a bunch of companies with zero gross margins and we don't do that.
Um but you know if you if you sort of took like gross margins, retention rates and sort of like ease of customer acquisition like I' I'd place far more emphasis on making sure that we feel like there's greatness in those latter two.
Um and you know give them a little bit more benefit of the doubt that they can improve uh on on the first. >> For sure.
Yeah.
I flip back to this because I I I I've seen this personally myself like a dozen plus times, but but something you said there really just clicked for me, which is to say like, you know, a lot of people try to make comparisons to the dot era and they're like, oh remember we measured eyeballs as well, right? Like isn't that the akin to in terms of retention or usage and it's like yes and no. this is reaching such an inmass so quickly because of all the reasons you alluded to earlier David in terms of ability to just pull up a website and actually try it but also people are paying for this and it's an interesting juxaposition when you think about the last cycle of things we paid for so to speak like a Spotify you know subscription or a Netflix subscription where as soon as you know obviously pressures come from from a budget standpoint those are first to go but this you'd probably sacrifice a few things just given how much of an impact it has made either professionally for you personally and accelerated your productivity and and hopefully time in terms of of acceleration as a part of that.
Um there >> Thomas's question I'm happy to take Thomas's question. >> It's from this is from Thomas.
So it seems like there's downward pressure on the likes of Open AI on consumer pricing yet the cash burn of open AI is ramping up to levels not seen before previously.
You know reports of a billion dollars plus per month.
How does a cash burn moderate in the future relative to what you think in your opinion? >> Yeah.
So, um, so yeah.
So, so what I was saying is like I think effectively like there's greater consumer stickiness than you would think and there have been a tremendous amount of free alternatives thrown at consumers over the last 12 months and it hasn't had any impact on their business.
Now, that could change over time. uh but so far what we've seen is is no effect that creates price pressure and if you think about what I had described earlier which is like call it a billion people using it and only 30 million people paying for it I think there's way more upside to monetize the base than there is risk of price pressure uh on you know today's 30 million people paying for it um and so uh so I think there will end up being like if it's a a P time Q and this is you know we're talking about chatb I would say it probably applies to, you know, most of the consumerf facing stuff in the industry.
If there's a P time Q, which is like price times quantity, which is the really simple way to think about these consumer internet businesses, Q is like at this point, they've gotten so big on the on the monthly active users, like over the course of the next 5 years, like maybe it gets to two billion or something.
I don't know.
But like the Google and Facebook properties are in the twos, billions.
So there's you it only gets so large.
Um, but I think there's a tremendous amount of room to run actually on the upside on the P uh on the price.
So, so again, if you think about, you know, how are they monetizing today, you know, it's 30 million people out of a billion um, you know, at a a modest subscription that is not really reflective of like real price discrimination yet.
So, I suspect the P is probably like a thing that we get surprised on the upside by.
Um, you know, I I think about like lessons learned from previous internet era companies and I remember looking at internet companies 10 years ago and we would we would always look at like Facebook and Google and we're like, "Okay, Facebook and Google, they're monetizing their users at X, like that's the max we could get to." Um, and the big story about what's happened over the last 10 years is they've like 8xed their own monetization of their users.
And so I I I suspect that if they, you know, have some uh thoughtful ways of monetizing free usage while while still maintaining trust, there's probably more upside than downside uh on on pricing uh to to Thomas's question.
And then on the burn um the the actual like most of the burn comes from re like research like R&D you know and so f future investments um and you know we could apply this to the whole industry of all the model companies um but we could you know we could talk if if it's specifically open AI I'm happy to address that one but on the open AI side um I think they're in an advantaged position because they have the consumer base and that's stickier.
Like my family like my parents in Kentucky you use chat GPT like if there's some better slightly better model that comes out like they're not going to switch.
Um and so I think that's pretty durable.
Um and so it's probably better a better position to be in um to fund those research efforts for continued model development.
Um you know there used to be like a thing which was you know enterprise companies are stickier than consumer companies.
Um in this case they're developer comp like these are like developers buying these things uh on the B2B side for the most part today like buying kind of you know raw access to the models and that's not very sticky uh yet.
I think it it's possible that it does get sticky over time um but as of right now it's not very sticky.
So to the point about coding models, you know, if there's a new coding model that comes along that's better than the latest version from Enthropic, like our coding companies will just switch and it's pretty easy to do because it's an API call.
And so um so you know, I think interestingly enough, it's a little bit different this time where the consumer is a little stickier.
I think that gives you an advantage and I think the companies will not irrationally spend on new model development if there's not a financial return.
Uh I would say one of the things that we've observed over the last now almost five years of spending time with these companies is a lot of the founders started as like research brain AI people that were like we're going to there's going to be no economy and like everything's going to end because we're going to have AGI and it's like and then you know what like has happened like competitive forces have kicked in and they've become like hard capitalists and so you know my my expectation and from conversations with them you know on an ongoing basis is you know they're not going to do totally irrational things on the research side if there's not going to be a financial payback for them. >> So can DG also comment on durability of revenue for many of the AI applications built on LLMs i.e. outside of open AI anthropic xai. >> Yeah.
Um it depends on the nature of the use.
So I think some of them are really sticky.
Um, so you know, companies, you know, like medical scribe stuff I think is pretty sticky, uh, because there's a bunch of doctor workflow built around it.
Um, uh, you know, customer support I think is pretty sticky.
Some of like the high-end financial analysis type stuff I think is pretty sticky.
Um, >> can you explain why those spec specific areas you think are more stickier than others? Yeah, I think the more stuff that gets integrated and the more company specific uh like kind of rules built around the model stuff you have the stickier it's going to be.
Um and so you know I think stickiness comes in the form like in software in in applications like the same way it's kind of always come with software.
Uh I'm sure one of my early stage partners has written a blog post about it because we talk about it all the time. uh but you know it's stuff like integrations uh you know rules engines workflows um you know stuff like that inter you know sort of enterprise capabilities so like I think >> like a customer for example the rules to go down the sequencing of how to troubleshoot are so embedded that you probably wouldn't experiment a ton once you've got a workflow you know across multiple different scenarios that >> Yeah.
Yeah. or and even like a style with which something engages like these like a lot of the companies that are in customers of these things are like brands and they care about the way that you know like the um the customer support agent interacts and so um so I think that stuff's probably pretty sticky.
I think there's a bunch of stuff that's not sticky at all.
Um, so some of the emergent behavior that's like um, you know, I don't want to talk negative about anything.
Um, but like some of the stuff that's like not as sticky is like experimental usage of tools to build um, you know, some of the internal tooling software replacements or like very low-end prototyping of websites and things like that.
I just think it's like TBD, you know, who the players are and what the use cases are.
And I think I think the market for that will probably segment out like we're already seeing it some where some of the tools are just being kind of used for prototyping and then some of the cool tools are being used to like actually build and deploy apps.
Um and I think you'll see you know kind of continued bifurcation of those things.
Um but you know it's so early.
Um I don't think that like companies are going to vibe code up like their Salesforce.com.
It's just not worth it. like it's not like core competencies.
I hope they would.
I I wish we could vibe code away our Salesforce.com. >> Okay, I'm going to speedrun through some of these questions because I I recognize we've uh opened the floodgates on them and I want to make sure we get through as many as possible.
So, Alberto um asked, "Given the speed of go to market for AI companies, do you think 100 million AR is the right milestone to measure against or are you starting to move the goalpost on on what success is there?" Yeah, it's so funny like you know the it used to be uh I can't even remember one of the one of the VCs coined the term you know like triple triple double double or something like that and it's like that looks like very modest. >> Yeah, >> something like that.
Yeah.
And then that that time compression has like massively gone down.
Um so I I I gotta look up the stat.
We we uh we ran the analysis on it recently, but it was like, you know, the top companies that we've seen um you know, have gotten to 10 million, then 100 million like four times faster or something like that.
Um for us, you know, it's really important that we have market context and like real time market context to make judgments about what great looks like.
And so I don't have an absolute answer for you, but if you were to sit there and look at and like and listen to one of our investment discussions, um we are we are comparing like the growth of you know XYZ new app to like cursor uh and you know nothing looks like cursor so it's unfair but like cursor and decagon and a bridge and 11 labs uh you know and not like Shopify and docuine and you know those companies.
So um you know if you're not like fully in the market and seeing everything and meeting all the companies you're not going to be able to have that context to assess what grade is at any given time >> for sure.
Um for AI companies what do you this is a good question from a deep gap. um what do you think about seatbased pricing versus usage base and and what are the experiments that uh some of the startups you've seen do well around configuring pricing in this age of AI? >> Yeah, this is like the the big question.
Uh, I I love this question cuz like I I feel like on X and like other blogs, people have written all these like really long posts about, you know, the the new prices that are going to happen and with AI and like it's a to me it's like a little hand wavy like one, it's subject to um, you know, innovations in the technology side and the products getting better.
Um, and then two, we've really only seen a true business model innovation like early early days in one area. um uh and that's customer support it because you can kind of like definitively resolve a task.
So even even with that like it's hard to do and so you know the the the question maybe to reframe it would be like we had actually we had like licenses right like you know perpetual licenses with maintenance and then we switched to SAS and that was mostly seatbased and that was huge innovation very disruptive that was a huge enabler of the startups actually going to beat the incumbent software companies uh because it was so disruptive at the time then we got to usage based and so you Obviously all the cloud companies uh run that way.
Um you know data bricks runs that way, Snowflake etc.
Um and then the hope would be that I've seen you know and and and heard about is like with AI can you just monetize the replacement of tasks humans do.
Um and so when I talked about the customer support piece like that's the furthest along in the monetizing the tasks that humans do.
Um, but that's super super early in all the other areas.
I think it's really early like end customers want to buy stuff on seat and consumption based pricing.
Um, and you know, you kind of got to meet the market where it is.
So, um, for now we're not seeing hugely disruptive things.
I think as the capabilities get much better um and sort of measurability of the task completions gets more objective perhaps maybe we get there but I would say it's like super early days and I'm low conviction that we end up you know five years from now with all the software companies monetizing in a completely different way. >> Absolutely.
Um, I've >> by the way, sorry, this is one more thing. >> This also goes to my point that I made earlier about surplus.
Like, it's going to be really hard to capture that surplus unless you can monetize based on the value of the completed task.
But because that's going to be really hard to measure and there's going to be competition in the market, I suspect that a lot of the surplus or savings may end up in the hands of the customer.
Again, you could probably still build really interesting, good companies that have really high market cap.
Um but that is like you know sort of directly related to who captures uh the value and the surplus like like the I always say like the steam engine got invented and like you didn't price the like the steam engine didn't get priced based on like the calculation of how many you know humans it replaced in doing a specific task. uh competitive forces kicked in and you know it was priced at some like appropriate you know competitive level with a return on capital um while still like capturing a lot of value but delivering much more value to the end customers or the users of of the steam engine and I think the same will happen here >> for sure actually it's a good um transition for us to actually uh talk about what this all means for growth um given this setup >> I I I try and sit in on as many pitches in our early stage practice as I can just because I feel like I learn a lot about you know what's starting what what are interesting founders starting to hone in on and you know in what areas are they building um and our early stage team is doing a great job of uh you know doing the most exciting early stage deals.
So that to me just bodess really well for the next 12 to 24 months of of deal activity for us. um you know looking out.
All right, growth partner.
So this is a this is a crazy looking chart.
I mean it's not surprising because it it was like the first thing we talked about which is you know tech markets are big and of course companies are staying private uh longer but um but you can see it in the chart here.
It used to be that companies uh would go public you know within the call it like 5 to 10 year window of of inception and despite the fact that the companies are growing much faster and getting better quicker they're staying private way longer.
So um you know all all is that all that is to say you know it's like 14 years and I think that's getting getting even longer.
If you take the market cap of, you know, the um the private markets valued above a billion dollars and, you know, we could argue are some of them overvalued, undervalued.
Um but um that whole value in aggregate is like three and a half trillion dollars and that's like 11%.
Three and a half trillion is like 11 12% of the NASDAQ or 10% of the NASDAQ, something like that.
Um if you go back 10 years ago that whole private market cap of three and a half trillion was like 500 billion.
So over the last 10 years the market cap of these private companies has like 7x.
So there's huge growth like again that is related to this point which is some of the best companies taking longer deciding to stay private longer.
Um but you know it's it's pretty it's pretty stark.
Um, so the other thing that's going on, I mentioned this earlier with Snowflake is like the public markets are no longer the place of extremely high growth.
Like it because of this and it's sort of logic, it's logical, it follows, right? Um, but something like 5% of software and internet public companies are forecasting 25% plus next 12 months growth.
So 95% of the public market universe in software and internet is growing less than 25%.
So if you want access to like the and this is it's a little bit too bad because you know there's obviously implications for retail and stuff like that.
Um but the reality of what's happened is the high growth segment of new technology companies is all living in the in the private markets now. um you know for the most part and so I don't see that changing.
Um I do think you know Figma and and a bunch of good companies like I think a bunch of good companies will go public.
Um but this is a trend that you know is is is pretty long-standing and I don't see it reversing uh anytime soon.
So um we have a bunch of really good AI companies.
Some people have asked, they're like, "Oh, is isn't there like crowding that's happened in some of the best, you know, companies?" And um what I would say is like one, we're getting in a lot of these companies much earlier than than others are able to.
And two, even for the ones that are later where you know there are bigger rounds like it's really important that we have that early relationship because it gives us ball control and access into the rounds and XAI uh first outside money in beyond Elon.
So not only you know and a lot of these are growth fund kind of first money in um so you know it's important to get in earlier to generate returns but also to position us you know with management and to have access uh to shape later rounds.
If I were just to spend a second on you know how we have like our shaped our AI strategy there's basically two parts to what we're doing.
Um, one is the companies where they're like flying off the page, you know, uh, like undeniable momentum.
Uh, so, you know, companies like Cursor and Decagon and 11 and a bridge and and, you know, others.
Um, the second bucket is um, very early deals in the very very very best teams in the market.
And I say very very best teams in the market like with emphasis um because I think we're talking about like the top five teams in the world and anything beyond that we're not doing these companies. they're they're sort of a different shape.
Um they're growth dollars earlier than normal and there's a higher degree of variance in the business outcomes, but because the teams are so special and so great, we feel like business risk looks very different from capital risk.
And so we we feel like there's it's kind of they're kind of asymmetric bets where the asymmetry lies in the fact that we're probably downside protected um because the team quality is so high and there's so much you know demand uh for talent like you know we would be downside protected even if it doesn't work out and so high business you know sort of variance but you know sort of asymmetric capital or returns profile that looks a little bit different uh than a typical early stage investment.
We talk about timelines to um exits because on one dimension, you know, folks may may take the reaction of gosh, you know, private for longer means just extension of hold periods for LSB companies.
Maybe the reframe on it is why is that great for for us, but frankly as private investors and and why do we think it's actually advantageous in um some respects for some companies to actually delay time to IPO and how are you counseling folks as a part of that? >> Yeah, I mean this is it's a trick it's a tricky issue.
I mean, I said it right up front, which is like I we get paid on on DPI, too.
Like, uh, you know, that's that's that's how we that's how we compensate ourselves and our teams.
And so, you know, we care we care a lot about it.
I would say we're in a fortunate position where our portfolio is is pretty good.
Um, and we've had a number of companies that have have exited to the public markets or sold themselves.
Um and so you know we're not in a position where we haven't been able to deliver some liquidity.
Um for those sort of champion companies that have been private for a long time and and are getting a lot of coverage.
Uh I think each kind of has idiosyncratic reasons why they've wanted to stay private and you know I think I'm confident that they will go public.
So um so I think most of them will probably end up going public.
It just will take a longer amount of time.
Um, you know, one of the big uh things that we've observed is the private markets have adapted to some of what you get from the public markets.
Um, and you know, we've fortunately been very active in in some of those situations.
So things like um, you know, tend tender offers in the private markets.
A big thing that is hard for private companies is competing for talent.
Um, and you know, part of the reason why it's so hard is because public companies grant RSUs that typically vest on a quarterly basis and so they hit your account.
They're already tax withheld and it's basically like getting paid a lot of cash and it's hard for private market companies in some cases to compete with that.
Um, so you know, some of the bigger better ones have done more regular tenders and we've been very active in shaping those uh with the companies.
So to me it's a balance.
We kind of want what's best for the company.
If there's strategic reasons why it benefits them to be private, that's great and we'll help enable that.
Um, but we do recognize that obviously, you know, our goal is to to monetize uh great investments.
We're not there yet where we feel like there's a need to do unnatural things.
Uh I I just don't see that being the case >> for sure.
And I I do want to call out as well um I'm going to brag on behalf of you David because I I do think uh DPI generally is an issue and challenge across the industry.
I don't think it is our issue necessarily.
Um okay I'm going to also cover a question here.
Thank you for letting me uh do our commercial David on DPI.
You know it's my favorite topic. uh on the topic of of um when you think about some of the names that we have underwritten you know I think there is this broader question of gosh like there's a lot of of names for example like um you know the chat uh open ais of the world and also data bricks that feel like you know they're doing more of these tender offers they're doing more of these you know kind of SPVS how do you counter that portfolio composition of names like that versus names like an android roll or flock where it's probably very very difficult to get any access and how do you think about the configuration of the portfolio as a part of that? >> Yeah, I mean look um I mean the opening eye investment that we made um you know we we were able to write exactly the check that we wanted to write um you know in terms of sort of portfolio construction.
So to me it doesn't seem, you know, I'm sure I'm sure some folks have had access because other managers are are trying to do SPVS and stuff, but I think that's increasingly hard.
Um, uh, you know, it's also sort of our decision on how much to wait these opportunities and build a portfolio.
Um, so you know, I happen to think that the return profile of of that recent one and data bricks is is very attractive.
Um, but you know, we don't want an entire portfolio of things that we think are like pretty safe 2xs, you know, where I think the question is, can we make 5x on them, but like we feel pretty confident we can make 3 to 4x and 2x is pretty safe. >> Awesome.
Speaking of um public companies, we had a question from from Paige here on um well actually it's it's two related questions.
Um, what publicly traded software companies do you think won't be disrupted by a AI and have real modes and any obvious ones that you think it will be? And related to that, I think we had some questions earlier on around uh how much if at all any public companies you do in the fund? >> Yeah, probably very few public companies in the fund.
I mean, we'd have to have a really really strong thesis and relationship with the management team to want to do that.
Um, again, the public universe is just way slower growing and there's really really exciting stuff that we can do in the private universe and so the bar is extraordinarily high um, you know, for things in the in the public markets and we've done a couple which have worked out I would say.
Um, but you know the bar is very high and the the opportunity cost is probably something that may be even higher growth uh, in in the private markets.
Um, yeah, the what what companies are going to get disrupted in the public markets like I love this question.
I don't know all all I would offer this framework which is which is maybe there's three interesting ingredients to consider when you think about the safety or durability of the of the public software companies.
One would be you know UIUX.
So if to the extent that we get a complete re-imagination of UIUX um you know that'll be really exciting.
Like what is Salesforce.com? Salesforce.com is like a set of really uninteresting um you know checklists and forms that people fill out for the most part on the front end.
Um the promise of this stuff you know agents is like a way overused term but like like the new technology should be able to like do things for you as opposed to like keep your records for you.
And so you could imagine a completely reimagined UI UX which is proactive, which is like, hey, instead of you going and inputting things, I'm I know what you're doing.
I'm just going to tell you what to do.
Um, and so a total reimagination of the workflow um would be one ingredient for a startup to win versus an incumbent.
The second would be access to data.
Um so you know an entirely new form of data that gets sucked in to take the actions on your behalf like Salesforce you know I mentioned the form thing on the front end the reason it's really really sticky is the database on the back end so to the extent that instead of using that sort of structured database on the back end you take all of your unstructured data and dump it into a data bricks for example um you know and and query it or access it through that um that would be another interesting sort of opportunity for a startup to attack.
Um and then the third is a business model innovation and I mentioned this already it's super super early days but to the extent that startups can come up with an you know sort of like novel way of shifting the business model in a disruptive form uh against like seatbased pricing salesforce.com uh you know it would be uh it would have a chance to win.
So, I think for startups to win, I think you need all three.
Um, and that's just in the head-to-head stuff.
I think startups are already finding interesting windows of opportunity in and around these systems of record.
Um, which we've made a bunch of investments in.
We haven't found the startup that's like got the killer idea for like dethroning salesforce.com yet.
I hope we find it.
So, I know that's an unsatisfactory answer, but at least it's like a a f that's the framework I would use to to think about those those three buckets. >> Awesome.
Okay, I'm getting the hook because I know we only have a few minutes left of this webinar.
So, maybe in the last couple minutes, we'll uh fast forward here to uh to talk about the team.
I don't know why it took us over an hour plus to get to this point.
So maybe we'll go through that and then David also how you work with the broader A16Z team and I'll bring us all back home with how this all fits in in the broader uh franchise and firm as well. >> Yes, I love the team.
Uh they're uh they're very very smart.
Uh they've come together in in an awesome way.
We have a really strong sort of team subculture.
Um you know we are very very very intertwined with the early stage teams.
Um you know if you think about like where we get alpha in our business um you know there's access which I've talked about already um you know in terms of like you know being already involved in the companies and and 80% of the time when we make a new investment that's not an early stage investment one of our early stage folks has some pre-existing relationship so um you know access is a big piece of it insights is the other piece like I think the way you get really you know like outsized upsize you know returns in our business is market and product insights.
I mean, I think you you have to do all the analysis around business model and financials because you can make big mistakes if you get that wrong and we go super deep in each of those.
Um, but I think the real outlier opportunities come when you have a market or product insight that maybe the rest of the market hasn't figured out yet.
And you know the fact that we're attached to the early stage team gives us the opportunity to have those and gives us a tremendous amount of leverage to have a relatively small amount of team uh small amount of team members given how much how much ground we cover. >> I will also uh take the opportunity to uh brag on your team and my team because I think both of our teams got a 91% on the employee engagement score.
So not that we're competing across teams, but uh you know this is a good barometer for team subculture uh no doubt and uh something we always we do around the firm uh year round which is very company-like but hopefully gives you a sense of what we're measuring uh you know ourselves across as well in terms of of team culture.
Um but I want to spend a minute to illustrate the point that David alluded to around how we work in collaboration with the early stage and also um think about the latest stage venture in terms of sitting across all the six different early stage buckets uh across the across the firm.
And so maybe David if you want to give just like the highlevel talk track on if you were to hypothesize what the composition of the portfolio would look like across these six different buckets that'd be helpful.
And then I saw a question around how much we would expect around crypto investments and particularly around token crypto investments.
Um that would be helpful. >> Yeah, absolutely.
The best part about where we are is we've got people at the early stage figuring out where they think they should be spending their time.
And typically, you know, our world is like 12 to 24 months downstream of that.
So when you see the way we size our funds at the early stage, that's a reflection of what those early stage teams think is their opportunity set. and you know ours sort of follows that.
So I think the largest amount of opportunity will continue to be AI infraai apps.
Next American Dynamism you know our early stage team is killing it in that area.
You know beyond just AI there's obviously a pressing uh you know sort of market and world need for American dynamism companies.
So you had at the same time you have market need you had people that figured out how to do this inside of SpaceX and and uh Palunteer who have then left to start companies.
So the talent is there to navigate um you know a a very complex uh go to market uh motion.
Um and then you have advances in technology beyond genai like uh autonomy capabilities and vision uh advances that enable American dynamism.
So we're very excited about that area.
We're starting to see a little bit more interesting stuff in AI enabled health things.
So, we've done a couple um you'll continue to see us active there, but it's probably a little bit less than uh the AI infra and app side.
And then crypto um the way we're doing that is working um you know handinhand with Chris and the crypto team uh for their high conviction bets where they're at a stage that they fit you know the growth fund and um and you know I I brag on them.
I think they're the best crypto investors in the world and and we sort of are happy to attach ourselves to that and to certainly depends on the opportunity set like we're seeing really exciting stuff in the enablement of stable coins.
Um and and so you know to the extent that we see like a massive takeoff and in that market it could be more.
I always say it would be great if a 100% of our investment activity in the growth fund was followons uh because that would mean that our early stage team is absolutely killing it and and they're getting a lot of market share.
Um but you know I think there will always be a place for us to do really attractive new things.
Um and we don't build the portfolio based on some target around new versus followon.
It's it's really like best ideas when you know where do we have access right to win etc. >> Great.
Um and then uh less than 60 seconds.
Do you want to take Annie's question? So on the topic of portfolio construction, how much exposure do you want to top research teams with a wide fan of outcomes versus opportunities with a more narrow range? How many more researchers do you think are actually out there um you know beyond the ones that you've already backed that that you will get more exposure to? >> There are extremely high-end researchers at some of the big labs that we we our early stage team is tracking.
And I should have mentioned this when we do these we do them with the AI infra fund.
So we would not you know we we rely on them heavily uh to make sure that we're doing the right assessment of the teams and the you know the research ideas that they're pursuing.
Um you know in terms of portfolio construction I I I quite like the way that we've done it.
Um where you know we have some you know absolute champion companies that we we think actually have like a lot of room still to run. um where on the downside we think we would if things really go poorly like we'd still probably make two times our money and on the upside you know there may not be the opportunity for 10x over five years but we think there will be the opportunity for 5x over 5 years the research team with the high variance is a little bit of an output of that great opportunity set like right now there's not another Ilia floating around in the AI market and so we would never try and say oh we want 10% of our portfolio to be in these so we need to find someone.
It's more reactive when we do find those people who are really special.
I think the only shift that we'll see over time is I think you're seeing a bunch of really really really exciting AI apps and American Dynamism companies at the earlier stage that are poised to become kind of champion companies over the next five years.
Um and so you'll probably see a lot of activity from us uh from us uh in those kinds of companies. >> Awesome.
And with that I'm going to close out here lastly.
Thank you David.
Appreciate it. >> Great to hang as always.