LOGAN KILPATRICK: Today, we're joined by Demis Hassabis, who's the CEO of Google DeepMind.
DEMIS HASSABIS: We're pretty much releasing something every day.
It's hard to keep up, even internally.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: I feel like we're shipping lots of stuff-- Deep Think-- IMO gold medal, Genie 3, which the reception has been super incredible.
DEMIS HASSABIS: We want to build what we call a world model, which is a model that actually understands the physics of the world.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Building the technology and then also actually putting it in people's hands is such a beautiful combination.
DEMIS HASSABIS: We're starting to see convergence of those models together into what we call an omni model, which can do everything.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: So we also announced our partnership with Kaggle to launch Game Arena.
DEMIS HASSABIS: As the name suggests, the best models get pitted against each other.
As they get better, the tests will get harder automatically.
And I think it's just one of, probably, many new benchmarks that are going to be required as we get closer to AGI.
It's an amazing, exciting moment in the industry, I would say. [MUSIC PLAYING] LOGAN KILPATRICK: Hey, everyone.
Welcome back to "Release Notes." My name is Logan Kilpatrick from the Google DeepMind team.
Today, we're chatting with Demis Hassabis, who's the CEO of Google DeepMind.
Demis, thanks for being here.
Excited to chat about all of the releases and progress that we've had in the last few months.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Great to be here.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Let's start with just the unprecedented amount of momentum.
I feel like we're shipping lots of stuff-- Deep Think-- IMO gold medal, Genie 3, which the reception has been super incredible, like 50 other things in the last two months that I feel like we've already forgotten about because things are moving so quick.
I'm curious to just get your high-level sense of that progress and momentum that's happening.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, well, look, it's fantastic to see.
We've been building up to the speed, I think, of our shipping and progress over the last couple of years.
And I think you're seeing the results of that now.
But it's an amazing and exciting moment in the industry, I would say.
Seems to be things coming out every day.
We're pretty much releasing something every day.
It's hard to keep up, even internally, and the field as a whole.
So it's exciting to see.
And I'm really proud and pleased with some of the latest work we've put out there.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: How are you thinking about Deep Think, specifically? Obviously, one of the things I've been most excited about is the model's actually available, a version of the IMO gold model is available, for Gemini app subscribers.
People can actually put their hands on the model, which I think has historically-- we were pinging about Genie stuff.
And I think building the technology and then also actually putting it into people's hands is such a beautiful combination.
So from a Deep Think perspective, how are you thinking about it? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, look, I think the advent of the thinking models is a little bit of hark back to our original gaming work on things like AlphaGo and AlphaZero.
So we always worked on-- from the beginning of DeepMind, actually, the history of our work has always been with agent-based systems.
So what we mean by that is systems that can complete a whole task-- and mostly, in the early days, playing a game really well.
And there's an objective.
And you basically have this model.
Today, we have multimodal models, really powerful ones, that model language and everything around us.
But in those days, we would have gaming models.
And then you need some thinking or planning or reasoning capability on top.
And this is obviously the way to get to AGI.
And then, of course, once you have thinking, you can do deep thinking, or extremely deep thinking, and then have parallel planning.
You can do planning and thoughts in parallel and then collapse them onto the best one and then make a decision and then move on to the next one.
There's still, I think, quite a lot of innovation that's required there, but it's exciting to see the rate of progress, even in the thinking part of things.
And obviously, for things like maths, for coding, for scientific problems, also for gaming, you're going to need to process and plan and basically do this thinking and not just output the first thing that the model comes up with.
That's unlikely to be good enough.
So you want to go back and refine your own thought processes, which is, in effect, what the thinking systems do.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah.
I had not seen "The Thinking Game," and I watched it probably a week and a half ago or something like that.
And I was scribbling down notes as I was watching it.
And I was like, wait, Demis and the DeepMind team were ahead of all of this stuff.
I was like, is there-- and, also, there was just so many interesting parallels to as you were trying to scale up RL to solve previous problems, like what that looks like today.
And the data bottleneck for AlphaFold is a good example.
And similar to how we have that problem today with human expert data for some of these domain-specific tasks, like coding or just outside of scientific domains, very-- how much of that do you-- does it feel like deja vu as we're now solving these problems with language models and scaling up in other domains? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, I think it's become clear we were always on the right track with, we were the first to use RL seriously, basically.
That was one of the first bets we made back in 2010, along with deep learning.
And, of course, our Atari work, which was the first thing, our first landmark result, was the first real deep RL system that could actually do something interesting and useful-- in that case, play Atari games from the 1970s just from the pixels on the screen and be better than any human can play it, but, importantly, play any Atari game out of the box, so sort of generalized.
And that's really what I think proved to the field that these new techniques were ready to be scaled up and actually be useful.
So we've always had this kind of thing in mind.
And thinking is something-- if you play chess, like I do, when you're very young, that's all you're thinking about is how to improve your own thought processes.
How does your thought process work? And, of course, that leads-- at least for me, led me to thinking about neuroscience, how the brain works, and then AI as this amazing tool, and also try to distill intelligence into a digital artifact.
And there's still a long way to go.
The kinds of systems we have today, they're very good at some things, but they're still pretty flawed at other things, and relatively simple things.
So they're impressive.
They can get gold medals in IMO, which is unbelievable, really, if you think about it, just from the natural language description.
And by the way, these are just Gemini models with Deep Think and a bit of extra thinking.
They're not specialized around these tests.
And yet they're really, really good.
But on the other hand, they can still make simple mistakes in high school maths or simple logic problems or simple games if they're posed in a certain way.
So that must mean there's still something missing.
And these are uneven intelligences, or jagged intelligences.
In some dimensions, they're really good.
Other dimensions, their weaknesses can be exposed quite easily.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah.
I want to come back to this.
But, actually, before we do that, can we double-click on Genie 3? And I think there's an interesting segue around models aren't great at playing games.
And yet I saw a bunch of people commenting on Genie 3.
And the reaction was absolute awe.
People are like, this is-- I saw some very extreme comments being like, we're in a simulation.
This is proof that anything is possible because the Genie demos are so good.
And it also, obviously, ties to solving RL with games.
Again, if you had to look back and then, now, reflecting on the Genie 3 moment, do you think-- has that turned out how you would have expected? I feel like it's not obvious to me that making models good at playing games results in the world model stuff that we have today.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, there's several-- Genie is several branches of research and thinking coming together, ideas coming together.
So, on the one hand, we've always used-- so we've used board games as a challenging domain to improve our AI algorithm ideas.
We used to use computer games a lot both as challenges, but also to create synthetic data.
So we used to, and we still do, use a lot of simulated environments-- very realistic ones, traditionally built ones, actually, like 3D game engines, to create more training data for our systems to understand the physical world.
The reason we're doing that is we want to build what we call a world model, which is a model that actually understands the physics of the world-- the physical structure, how things work, materials, liquids, and even behaviors of living objects, animals, human beings.
That's obviously a critical part of our world.
We don't just live in language and maths.
There's the physical world that we exist in.
And so if you want-- an AGI clearly needs to understand the physical world, partly also so it can operate in the physical world, whether that's robotics-- that's what's holding robotics back, it needs a world model-- or things like Project Astra, our Gemini Live project about having a universal assistant that can assist you in everyday life, maybe exist on your phone or on glasses and help you in your everyday life.
Clearly, that also would need to understand the spatiotemporal context that you're in.
So you need a world model to really understand the world and how it operates.
And one of the ways to prove that you've got a good world model is to be able to generate the world.
So there's many ways to test the efficacy and the depth of your world model, but one great way is to just get it to reverse it and generate something about the world, like you turn on a tap, and some liquid comes out of it, or there's a mirror, and can you see yourself in the mirror-- all of these things.
And that's what Genie's going towards is building that world model and then expressing it and actually being able to generate worlds that are consistent.
And that's the surprising thing about Genie 3 is that you look away, you come back, and that part of the world is the same as you left it, which is mind-blowing, really.
And it shows that it has a very good underlying model of how the world works.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: How do you think people will use Genie? Is the intent for us to just leverage it to help make Gemini and some of our other robotics initiatives better and scale that up? Or do you think there's actually a-- obviously, I could see people playing with it, in some cases-- but do you think there's any-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah.
It's so exciting in multiple dimensions, which is that, one, of course, is we're already using it for our own training.
So we have a games-playing agent called SIMA, Simulated Agent, that can, out of the box, take the controls and play an existing computer game-- in some cases well, in some cases not so well.
But actually, what's interesting here is that you can put that SIMA agent into Genie 3.
So you've got, basically, one AI playing in the mind of another AI.
It's pretty crazy to think about.
So SIMA is deciding what actions to take and what-- you can give it a goal, like go and find the key in the room.
And then it will send out commands as if it's playing a normal computer game.
But actually, at the other end is Genie 3 generating the world on the fly.
So there's one AI generating the world, and there's another AI inside of it.
So it could be really useful for, of course, creating unlimited training data.
So I can imagine that being very useful for things like robotics, like just training our general AGI systems.
But also, of course, it's got a lot of potential in an applied sense, too, for the future of interactive entertainment.
I've got many ideas, as you wouldn't be surprised, of what types of next-generation incredible games can be made and maybe some new type of entertainment that we haven't really thought of before that's somewhere between film and game, some new genre of entertainment.
And then, finally, maybe the most interesting thing, from my point of view as a scientist, is, what does this actually tell us about the real world and physics and maybe things like simulation theory? One has to, when you're working on this late at night, and you're generating these entire worlds, and you're thinking through how this technology is working, you have to also consider-- and I've always been doing that in my career-- of, well, what's going on in the real world? What's the nature of reality? And actually, that's the thing that's driven me through my whole career to build AI as this amazing tool for science.
And I think things like Veo 3, our video model, video-audio model, and Genie 3 really tell us something about the nature of reality, if we look at it with a slightly different lens.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love that.
I think this is actually a perfect transition to what you were saying before about jagged intelligence.
And on one hand, we have this mind-blowing system where the worlds are being generated and all this stuff.
On the other hand, you take Gemini out of the box, and you ask it to play chess.
And like I was telling you off-camera, I'm terrible.
I know the rules of chess, but I'm not actually good at it.
And I think I could beat our models at chess right now.
So how do you-- and, in some cases, they can't even follow the rules.
So we also announced GDM's partnership with Kaggle to launch Game Arena and have the models have a place to go and play a bunch of different games and test out the capabilities.
I'm curious to get your reaction to that.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, look, it's really interesting.
So this is a wider thing of, OK, so now all of our systems-- ours, Gemini, but also our competitors'-- are getting better and better.
Our systems can do some amazing things-- generate simulated worlds from text prompts, understand videos, all of these cool things, solve maths problems, do things in science.
But we all, I think, intuitively-- all of us have played around with these chatbots.
And you see the edges of what they can do quite easily.
And, in my opinion, this is one of the things that's missing from these systems being full AGI is the consistency.
It shouldn't be that easy for the average person to just find a trivial flaw in the system.
It used to be counting the number of Rs in "strawberry." I think we managed to solve that now.
But there are some still pretty trivial things that a school kid would trivially do that these systems can't.
So why is that? is a good question.
There's probably some missing capabilities in reasoning, in planning, in memory, that maybe one or two new innovations are still needed in those domains, other than just scaling.
But it's also partly maybe we need benchmarks, better benchmarks, to eke out what these things are good at versus what they're not good at.
And they're very general, these systems, including Gemini.
But a lot of the benchmarks we use are starting to get saturated.
So you look at some of the standard maths benchmarks, like AIME.
I think the latest result with Deep Think was 99.2%.
So you're getting into the region of very diminishing returns, and there may even be an error in the test.
And so they're getting rapidly saturated.
And so we're in need of new, harder benchmarks, but also broader, in my opinion-- understanding world physics and intuitive physics and other things that we take for granted as humans, and we find easy-- things like physical intelligence, as well, actually.
We don't have really good benchmarks for these things.
And also some safety benchmarks, too, testing for traits that you don't want, like deception, things like this.
So I think there's actually really amazing work to be done in creating benchmarks that are really meaningful, that test slightly more complicated or subtle things than the brute force school exam type things that we have today.
And that's why I'm so excited about Game Arena.
And it is going a little bit back to our roots, of course, which is why we came up with it.
But a lot of the reasons we started with games still hold today.
So, firstly, they're very clean testing grounds.
You get Elos.
You can get scores very easily.
It's very objective.
They're very objective measures of performance.
There's no subjectivity-- A/B testing with human beings deciding the ratings and so on.
I just think it's super scientific in that sense.
The other thing is they automatically scale with the capabilities of the systems.
So because the systems are playing each other in tournaments.
And this is pretty fun to watch, actually, even at this level that they're at.
That's the whole point of Game Arena, as the name suggests, is that the best models get pitted against each other.
So what we hope is that that will actually drive a lot of progress because the systems-- today, none of the AI systems are very good at gaming, things like chess, but even simpler games than that.
That's an interesting question-- why is that? And I'm sure they'll rapidly progress now we have a measure for it with Game Arena.
But as they get better, the tests will get harder automatically.
So you don't have to-- it's not like AIME or GPQA, where you have to come up with harder science questions, and then who's going to create those questions.
Are they leaked on the internet already? Each game is unique because it's created by the two players.
So there's a kind of uniqueness about that.
So that's also nice for testing.
And then the final thing is, just like we did with our own early games work, as the systems get better and better, you can introduce more and more complex games into the Game Arena.
So we started with chess for obvious reasons.
It's the classic one we test AI on.
It's close to my heart, of course, but the idea is we're going to expand it to, potentially, thousands of games.
And then you'll get an overall score.
So we're not really looking for systems that just play one game really well.
They should be able to play across all games to a good standard.
And it could be computer games, as well as board games.
And even more interestingly, eventually, maybe the AI system should be inventing their own games and then teaching them to-- the other AI systems have to learn them.
So it's like learning a new game, so it never existed before.
So there's no way you could overfit on training data or anything like that.
So I have a lot of ideas of these sort of multi-agent environments that, eventually, Game Arena could end up supporting.
So I think it's going to be a really important benchmark that will be long-lasting.
And I think it's just one of, probably, many new benchmarks that are going to be required as we get closer to AGI to make sure that we've actually covered the space of cognitive capabilities.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: One of the big challenges-- and this has been my reflection, and I want your reaction to this-- in the last couple of years is that, as I thought more about evals, it's become very clear that, actually, most of life's problems are eval problems.
And you don't think about this, unless you're doing AI and training models.
I don't.
But I'm like, performance in your job is an eval problem.
How you look at all these other things are all eval problems.
And it is interesting that the human equivalent of solving these problems-- the Game Arena stuff is nice because there is this empirical-- there's truth in that the system has all these constraints.
But as we extrapolate out, I imagine outside of the game domain, you lose some of this.
I was thinking about, how do we make RL environments for all these other tasks that humans do, as an example? And it becomes hard because it's like, what is the source of truth in those cases? And I'm curious, for nongame environments, how do we get to start to capture those things? DEMIS HASSABIS: That's always been the hard challenge with reinforcement learning has been, in domains that are more messy or real-world-like, how do you specify the reward function or the objective function that you're trying to optimize? And I think, in our world, and as humans, we don't have single objective functions.
It's very messy.
In fact, if I was to tell you, what are you optimizing for, on any given day, you might give a different answer.
And I think we're multi-objective, and we're continually weighting those different objectives differently against each other, depending on other states, like your emotional state, your physical environment, and where you are in your career-- all of these things.
But somehow, we muddle through with our brains.
And we figure out, roughly, what the right North Star is.
And I think our systems, our general systems, are going to have to do that, too, where they learn to interpret, maybe, what the human user's trying to achieve and then figure out, how does that translate into a set of useful reward functions which to optimize against? And so there's lots of experiments here going on about metacognition or meta RL, where you actually have another system on top that tries to work out what the reward functions are for the secondary system to optimize against.
And a lot of those things are still very much research problems.
There again, we used to, again, research those maybe 10 years ago when we were in the middle of our games work with AlphaGo and AlphaZero.
But I think a lot of that is going to come back in now.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: I feel like we should just start doing it now because it feels like all the things that DeepMind was doing 10 years ago are now the exactly whatever-- it's the forefront of what everyone is trying to do.
I want to, back to this thinking trend and also related to the game trend, we historically have had all these different scaling dimensions of models.
You can scale pre-training, post-training.
The data has been scaling up.
The compute was scaling up.
Then we had this reasoning scale-up, which is how a lot of the new-- Deep Think is enabled by reasoning scaling up.
It also feels now like tools are this new scaling dimension.
As you give the models tools and more powerful tools and different tools, they're able to do a bunch of stuff.
And I'm curious how that new scaling dimension ties to this worldview of what we've been doing with games and some of these simulated RL environments.
Is there a world where you give the model a physics simulator, and that's a tool that it has access to? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah.
I think tool use is one of the most important capabilities for these AI systems.
The reason the thinking has become a part of the systems as very important is because you can use tools during the thinking.
You can call Search.
You can use some maths program.
You can do some coding, come back, and then update your planning on what you're going to do.
So I think that's still, actually, fairly nascent at the moment.
But I think that's going to be incredibly powerful once that becomes really reliable and the systems become good enough they can use pretty sophisticated tools very reliably.
And then the interesting thing comes is, what do you leave as a tool versus put into the main system, the main brain, so to speak? Now, with humans, it's easy because we're physically constrained.
So anything that's not in our body is a tool.
So there's no question about what's a tool, what's our brain.
But with a digital system, you can actually-- those things can get blurred.
So should it be in the main model, the capability, for example, to play chess or something? Or do you just use Stockfish or AlphaZero as a tool? And that tool could also be an AI system.
It doesn't have to be a piece of software.
It could actually be something like AlphaFold or whatever.
And the question comes, I think, whether that capability helps other capabilities.
So, for example, math and coding we do put in the main model, the main Gemini model, because that seems to lift all boats.
If you get good at coding, you're good at math, then your reasoning capabilities are just better across the board.
And I suspect that may also happen with things like chess.
But on the other hand, you don't want to put too much specialized data in your general model because that might harm other things.
So it's very much an empirical question.
Does adding that capability in help the other capabilities? If it does, then do it.
If it harms the other general capabilities, then maybe consider using it as a tool.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Interesting.
One of the questions that developers-- through the developer lens of people who are building with our models-- are always asking is around, it's become very clear-- and you actually just said this-- as the model is reasoning, it's actually making use of tools, and it's doing all this stuff.
The models, historically, were like weights.
You would give a token.
You'd get a token out.
Now it feels like the models are becoming these entire systems themselves.
And how people actually build applications on top of the models is changing because the model is just doing more for you out of the box.
I'm curious, that model transitioning from just being weights somewhere to actually becoming a system resonates with your worldview of how progress is happening.
And we'll see that continue.
And then I don't know if you have suggestions for people who are building stuff as they're thinking about, what do I build, to this point of, what do I do as a tool versus what is the model just going to have empirically as part of it? DEMIS HASSABIS: You're right that the models are improving fast.
And as they're gaining the tool capability, along with planning and thinking, it's kind of exponentially increasing what the system might be able to do.
Because, obviously, it can combine tools in novel ways and combinations.
I think one thing you can think about is, what are the sorts of tools that are going to be incredibly useful for AIs to use, and start building those and providing those.
So I think there's a lot of potential there.
The agent itself, even with tool use, is not necessarily enough to be a whole product.
So there's still a lot of productization, I think, that has to be done on top.
Now, the hard part, and we've talked about this before, is, in this new world, I think it requires very interesting skills from a product manager or a product designer type of role because you've got to design-- say your product's coming out in a year.
You've got to be really close and understand the technology world to intercept where that technology will be in a year's time and design for that.
And I think whatever polish you put on top of your product, it has to allow for the engine under the hood to be unplugged and plugged back in with a more advanced system that's coming out every three to six months, basically-- maybe even faster than that.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: It feels like every two weeks.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Right? It feels faster.
Yeah, it feels like every two weeks these days.
So you've got to take that into account.
I don't think that's going to change.
But I think, thinking forward, is about the whole web ecosystem and the way that apps work and things like that may change because of agents using these systems and being able to use them as tools, effectively.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: That makes a ton of sense.
The progress for Genie 3 has been incredible.
And I think people are losing their mind over the system that we currently have.
I am hopeful-- I'm going to keep pushing you of, how do we get the model into more people's hands? So hopefully, that's coming.
Lots of people are excited.
I'm sure you've been getting pings from people being like, how do I use the model? Where do we go from here, from a world model Genie perspective? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, look, of course, we're trying to get it as efficient as possible now so we can give it to many thousands of people.
It's in limited preview, currently.
But we're also thinking about, what's the best way of releasing this as a user experience? We would love people to be able to share their creations with each other and allow people to play in the creations of other people and things that got voted up, a sort of user-generated community, in a way.
But the interesting thing is to maintain consistency because maybe you capture lightning in a bottle at one point.
You get some great prompt that creates a really compelling world.
How do we make sure that we can regenerate that world for the next players to come in and experience? So there's a bunch of thinking around there.
So there'll be a lot more information on that to come soon.
And I think where it's going altogether is if you think about Genie, you think about Veo, you think about Gemini, I think a lot of these-- these are separate models, currently, but we're starting to see convergence of those models together into what we call an omni model, which can do everything.
And we think that that's what an AGI system should be able to do is really handle all of those different aspects to the same quality level that we see with all of these different specialized models, but perhaps in one big model.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love that.
We were joking off-camera about all the chess stuff and it just being a good excuse for us to go to play games.
I feel like Genie's a good excuse for us to have a chance-- DEMIS HASSABIS: To make games.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: --to make games and play them.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, exactly.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: And then DeepMind's a video game carrier.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, that's always my secret plan is maybe post-AGI, once that's done safely over the line, go back with these tools and make the greatest game ever.
That would be a real dream come true.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Is it going to be a roller coaster simulator? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, maybe the ultimate version of "Theme Park." But I have some bigger game ideas in mind.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: We're building a bunch of vibe coding stuff in AI Studio, so I feel like the ideal world is pre-AGI, you can actually just start firing off a bunch of these ideas, and we have a whole Demis Game Arena that you build yourself.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, we'd love to try that out.
That's something very high up on my to-do list, that's for sure.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: I wanted to also-- and you and I had a couple of tweets going out about this last week, I think, or the week before.
We were celebrating, like, 980 trillion tokens on a monthly basis.
And I think we crossed the quadrillion mark, so we had something special made for you.
DEMIS HASSABIS: [LAUGHS] LOGAN KILPATRICK: In your signature blue.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Thanks so much.
Oh, fantastic.
Awesome.
Awesome.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: We'll get some derivatives of this, as well.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Thanks very much.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Of course, yeah.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Thank you.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: This was a ton of fun, Demis.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Thank you.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Thank you for taking the time to sit down.
I appreciate all the late nights thinking about the future and all the hard work that you and the rest of the DeepMind team are putting in.
So it's been a ton of fun.
DEMIS HASSABIS: Great.
Well, great chatting.
Thank you.
LOGAN KILPATRICK: Likewise.
And thanks for watching "Release Notes," everyone.
And we'll see you in the next episode. [MUSIC PLAYING]